STOP 



Early Journal Content on JSTOR, Free to Anyone in the World 

This article is one of nearly 500,000 scholarly works digitized and made freely available to everyone in 
the world by JSTOR. 

Known as the Early Journal Content, this set of works include research articles, news, letters, and other 
writings published in more than 200 of the oldest leading academic journals. The works date from the 
mid-seventeenth to the early twentieth centuries. 

We encourage people to read and share the Early Journal Content openly and to tell others that this 
resource exists. People may post this content online or redistribute in any way for non-commercial 
purposes. 

Read more about Early Journal Content at http://about.jstor.org/participate-jstor/individuals/early- 
journal-content . 



JSTOR is a digital library of academic journals, books, and primary source objects. JSTOR helps people 
discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content through a powerful research and teaching 
platform, and preserves this content for future generations. JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit 
organization that also includes Ithaka S+R and Portico. For more information about JSTOR, please 
contact support@jstor.org. 



April 25, 1921) 



THE CLASSICAL. WEEKLY 



183 



reveals a long, loving, and intimate association with 

the best Latin masters, which, when combined with 

sound critical sense, commends their literary judgments. 

Union College, 
Schenectady, N. Y. 



George Dwight Kellogg. 



Thucydides, Book IV, Chapters I-XLI (Pylus and 
Sphacteria). Edited by J. H. E. Crees and J. C. 
Wordsworth. Cambridge: at the University Press 
(1919). Pp. xvi + 96. 
In a brief Preface it is stated that this edition has 
been prepared for those who have not long been study- 
ing Greek and who have reached the stage of the 
"First School Examination " . A vocabulary has therefore 
been added (72-96). The book contains also a map of 
Pylus and Sphacteria. The Introduction (ix-xv) deals 
with the life and work of Thucydides and the contents 
of his history, Book IV, Chapters I-XLI. Mr. Crees, 
author of the Introduction, writes enthusiastically of 
Thucydides as a historian. Thucydides's history, he 
says, "would at any time have been a great work, but 
for its date it is in its conception a marvellous achieve- 
ment, and the expression of a person lity which 
compels respect". Thucydides necessarily, as a true 
Athenian, was a partisan, but he was none the less able 
to efface his partisanship and "achieved a monumental 
impartiality". Thucydides, the aristocrat, is so fair to 
Cleon that "the champions of Cleon must, and can 
base their championship on the evidence of Thucydi- 
des". There are 38 pages of notes to 33 of the Greek 
text. Yet, I suspect, in more than one place, the stu- 
dent who has not "long been studying Greek" would 
need more assistance than the authors give him toward 
the interpretation of the text. c. K. 



A NOTE ON THE RED RAIN IN ILIAD 16.459 

While listening recently to some lectures of Professor 
David M. Robinson on Homer, I was led to ask: Are 
the following passages of the Iliad merely the product 
of the poet's imagination or do they refer to real 
natural phenomena? 

In Iliad 16.459 we read 1 

She spoke nor did the sire of Gods and men 
Unheeding hear, but poured down on the earth 
Rain drops of blood, so honoring his dear son, 
Him whom Patroclus was foredoomed to slay 
In Troy's rich soil far from his native land. 

In Iliad 11.54 we read: 

Zeus roused an evil blare of war and sent 
Down from high heaven his rain drops stained with 
blood. 

Again in Hesiod, Shield of Heracles 383-385, in a 
passage perhaps imitated from the above, we have: 

Loud thundered Zeus, the counselor, flinging down 
From heaven bloody rain drops, setting thus 
A sign of battle to his great-souled son. 



In short, is there such a thing as red rain, apart from 
the effluvia of butterflies as suggested by Buchholz, 
Die Homerische Realien, 3.91, and is Homer justified 
in the use he makes of it? That there is and that Homer 
is better acquainted with and truer to nature than 
some of his critics is shown by the following note 
appended to certain verses of John Ruskin's Poem, 
The Broken Chain (Geo. Allen, Library Edition of 
John Ruskin, 2.177 [1903I). The verses are: 

Like purple-rain at evening shed 
On Sestri's cedar-darkened shore. 

The note runs thus: 
I never saw such a thing but once, on the mountains of 
Sestri in the Gulf of Genoa. The whole western half 
of the sky was one intense ambei colour, the air crystal- 
line and cloudless, the other half grey with drifting 
showers. At the instant of sunset, the whole mass of 
rain turned of a deep rose-colour, the consequent rain- 
bow being not varied with the seven colours, but one 
broad belt of paler rose; the other tints being so deli- 
cate as to be overwhelmed by the crimson of the rain. 

I have myself witnessed red rain in Chatham, Massa- 
chusetts, over Nantucket Sound. When one lives in 
the country and on the sea year in and year out, one 
acquires a wholesome respect for the observing powers 
of the classical poets, notably Homer. The phe- 
nomenon occurred at sunset, with drifting curtains of 
rain between the observer and the sun. These the red 
rays of the sinking orb shot through and through with 
deep crimson that faded and revived as the curtains of 
rain fell and succeeded one another. There was no 
rainbow, as the rain was between the observer and the 
sun, for one always sees a rainbow when he is between 
the rain and the sun (or the moon, in the case of a lunar 
rainbow, which is very rare), and of course the luminary 
cannot be very high in the heavens in either case. 

Given such a phenomenon, Homer's application is 
obvious and justified, as the following quotations from 
Byron, Sardanapalus, and Turner, Fallacies of Hope, 
prove. In Byron, the Chaldean priest says of the 
sinking sun: 

How red he glares amidst those deepening clouds, 
Like the blood he predicts. 

Turner's lines were over a picture of The Fall of 
Carthage: 

While o'er the western wave the ensanguined sun 
Is gathering huge a stormy signal spread, 
And set portentous. 



Rogers Fellow in Classics, 
The Johns Hopkins University. 



Carol Wight. 



'The translations are my own. So are the italics in the passages 
quoted. 



CICERO, CATILINAM 2.4, ITERUM 

Utinam ille omnis secum suas copias eduxisset! 
Tongilium mihi eduxit, quern amare in praetexta 
coeperat; Publicium et Minucium, quorum aes 
alienum contractum in popina nullum rei publicae 
motum afferre poterat, reliquit. Quos viros! quanto 
aerealieno! quam valentis! quamnobilis! 

Until Professor Herrouet endeavored, in The 
Classical Weekly 14. 87, to refute my punctuation 


