Go ogle 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non- commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 



Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : / /books . google . com/ 




r 



r 

i. 



THE 



FIRST THREE BOOKS 

OF 

HOMEE'S ILIAD 

WITH 

INTRODUCTION, COMMENTAUY, AND VOCABULARY 
FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS 

BY 

THOMAS D. SEYMOUR 

HiLLHOUSB PbOFBSSOR OF GbEEK IN YaLV COLLBeS 



BOSTON, U.S.A. 

PUBLISHED BY GINN & COMPANY 

1898 




BBtered, aeoordiog to Act of OongreM, in the year 1880, by 

THOMAS D. SEYMOUR, 
in the Office of the Librarian of Congreu, at Washington. 

All BieHTS Rbsxbtxd. 



Pbesswobk bt Ginn & Co., Boston, U.S.A. 



PREFACE. 

The Text of this edition of the First Books of Homer's Iliad 
is that of Homeri Ilias edidit Guilielmus Dindorf: editio quinta 
correctior quam curavit (7. Hentze, Leipzig, 1884. 

The Commentary has been adapted to the use of schools from 
that of Homer's Iliad, Books L-III, edited on the basis of the 
AmeiS'Hentze edition by T. D, Seymour, in the College Series of 
Greek Authors. 

The Introduction has been simplified and enlarged, according 
to the needs of the present work, from the Editor's Introduction 
to the Language and Verse of Homer, also in the College Series 
of Greek Authors. 

The Vocabulary has been prepared from the poem itself, but 
with the use of Seber's Index Homericus, Frohwein's Verbum 
Homericum, Ebeling's great Lexicon Homericum, and Seiler- 
Capelle's Worterbuch iiber die Gedichte des Homeros. 

For a somewhat fuller illustration of the Greek text and of 
Homeric forms, the Editor refers to the above-mentioned volumes 
of the College Series of Greek Authors. 

Reference is made to Books of the Iliad by the capital letters 
of the Greek alphabet, A, B, r, ktX. ; to Books of the Odyssey, by 
the small letters, a, p, y, kt\. References preceded by the sym- 
bol [§] are to the Introduction. H stands for the Greek Gram- 
mar of Hadley-Allen ; G, stands for Goodwin's Greek Grammar. 
Other abbreviations are intended to be self-interpreting. Trans- 
lations are in italics; paraphrases are enclosed in double inverted 
commas ; quotations are enclosed in single inverted commas. 

Yalb Collbgb, March 28, 1889. 



INDEX TO THE 



INTRODUCTION. 



Adjectiyes § 38. 
Adverbs § 56. 
Analysis of Hiad § 8. 
Anastrophe § 55 c. 
Anomalous Forms § 37. 
Aorists of /Ai-form § 53. 
Apocope § 29. 
Asyndeton § 15. 
Augment § 43. 
Books, division into, § 10. 
Bucolic diaeresis § 58 A. 
Caesoral Pauses § 58. 
Change of meanings § 17. 
Chiasmus § 16 a. 
Comparison of Adjectives § 40. 
Comparisons § 14. 
Consonants § 30. 
Contract Verbs § 47. 
Contraction § 24. 
Crasis § 26. 
Dactyls § 57 c. 

Dialect, General Remarks, § 22. 
Digamma § 32. 
Direct Discourse § 11 e. 
Elision § 28. 
Epanalepsis § 16 h, 
Epexegesis § 12 e. 
Epic Poetry § 1. 
Epithets § 12 a. 
Feminine Caesura § 58 c,/. 
First Aorist § 48. 
First Declension § 34. 
Future § 48. 

Genitive Absolute § 19 d. 
Hexameter § 57. 
Hiatus § 27. 

Hysteron Proteron § 16/. 



Iliad, Story of, § 6. 

Iterative Forms § 54. 

life in Homer § 5. 

litotes § 16 c. 

Masculine Caesura § 58/. 

Metathesis § 31. 

fu-Yerhs § 52. 

Middle Voice § 50. 

Numerals § 41. 

Optative mode § 46. 

Order of Words § 11 h. 

Parataxis § 21. 

Parechesis § 13. 

Particles § 20. 

Passive Voice § 51. 

Patronymics § 39. 

Periphrasis § 16 d. 

Perfect Tense § 49. 

Prepositions § 55. 

Pronouns § 42. 

Quantity § 59. 

Reduplication § 43. 

Second Declension § 35. 

Special Case Endings § 38. 

Spondees § 57 c. 

Stereotyped Expressions § 12 ht 

Style § 11. 

Subjunctive Mode § 45. 
Synizesis § 25. 

Synonymous Expressions § 12 e2. 

Syntax § 18. 

Third Declension § 36. 

Troy §4. 

Verb Endings § 44. 
Verse § 57. 
Vowels § 23. 
Zeugma § 16 e. 



INTRODUCTION. 



§ 1. EPIC POETRY. The Homeric Poems are the oldest remains 
of Greek literature, but they were not the earliest poems of the Greeks. 
Lyric poetry naturally precedes epic poetry. Every nation has love songs, 
war songs, and dirges, before it has narrative poems. Those early songs 
of the Greeks are all lost, although traces of them are found in the Iliad 
and Odyssey, Doubtless the Greeks had also many brief songs, narrat- 
ing exploits in war and hair-breadth 'scapes in adventure, before any one 
thought of composing a long epic poem. In the Iliad and Odyssey are 
found indications of poems about the adventures of Heracles, of the 
Argonautic Expedition for the Golden Fleece, and of short songs about 
the expedition against Troy. The earlier and shorter epic poems were 
used freely by Homer (for this name may fairly be given to the man who 
formed the plan of the Iliad, and to whom its unity is due) in the com- 
position of the Iliad, and again, after him, additions were made by other 
bards. The Iliad thus contains Pre-Homeric, Homeric, and Post- 
Homeric elements. Some scholars lay more stress on the one class of 
elements, while other scholars lay more stress on another. But the lover 
of the poem, who reads it attentively again and again, generally feels the 
essential unity and harmony of the work more forcibly than the incon- 
sistencies and discrepancies on which have been based the arguments for 
the different authorship of different parts of the poem. Composed at a 
time when the art of writing was not familiar to the people, when Greece 
had no * reading public,' the poem was made to be recited and heard, not 
to be read. It would, then, be composed in parts which could be recited 
at one sitting. The poet would not be solicitous to preserve exact har- 
mony of detail between lays which were not likely to be sung in immedi- 
ate succession nor on the same occasion. He would not begin his work 
with the plan of composing a poem of 15,000 verses, but, finding that his 
theme was popular and admitted of indefinite expansion, he would natu- 
rally develop what had been only indicated before. Thus the Books of 
the Iliad doubtless were not composed in the order in which they stand 
in our texts. The first part of the First Book must have been the earliest 
composed, for that is the basis of the rest of the poem ; but Books II.-VI. 



vi INTRODUCTION. § 2. 

(and still more, Books VII.-X.) may have been composed after Book XI., 
in order to fill up the details of the story. 

The beginner need not (and should not) be disturbed by questions as 
to the diverse authorship of different parts of the Iliad, The subject is 
exceedingly complicated, and cannot be studied profitably until the stu- 
dent is perfectly familiar with the entire poem, and with similar literature 
in other languages. The student should strive to enjoy and appreciate 
the Homeric Poems, — not to analyze them.* 

§ 2. a. Scholars now do not ask where Homer was bom, but rather 
where Greek epic poetry had its rise. The Muses were * Pierian Muses,* 
'OXvfiiria S^/mr €xoviT€U, and their earliest home seems to have been on 
the slopes of Mt. Olympus, in Pierian Thessaly. Thence epic poetry was 
carried by the Aeolians to Asia Minor, where it was adopted and per- 
fected by the lonians. The Homeric Poems still contain many Aeolic 
forms in words and phrases for which the lonians had no metrical equiv- 
alent. 

b. No one can tell the exact date of the composition of the Homeric 
Poems. Probably they were essentially in their present form as early as 
the Eighth Century b.c. 

§ 3. a. An Epic Poem is a narration in heroic verse of a dignified 
story of considerable length which has a definite beginning, middle, and 
end, and an organic relation of parts. The time of the action should not 
be so long as to make difficult a general view of the story. The poet 
puts as much as possible of his tale into the mouth of his actors, and so 
the Iliad is strongly dramatic. In the First Book, the first 427 verses 
are almost entirely dramatic, the narrative serving simply as * stage 
directions.* Epic poetry was the mother of the drama. 

* The famous Homeric Question, as to the composition of the Homeric 
Poems, was first treated in a scientific way by a German scholar, Friedrich 
August Wolf, in his Prolegomena ad Homerum, 1795. He claimed that the 
Iliad and the Odyssey were not the work of one poet, and that the unity of each 
poem was given to it by scholars at the court of Pisistratus in Athens, in the 
Sixth Century B.C. He based his view on external arguments, which have 
grown weaker rather than stronger since his day, and are almost entirely neg- 
lected now. About half a century later, in 1837, another German scholar, 
Lachmann, divided the Iliad into sixteen different lays, resting his division on 
internal arguments, t.e., on the inconsistencies of different parts. The discus- 
sion now continues, with the use of internal arguments, but scholars are less 
inclined than a few years ago to suppose that the Iliad is a conglomeration 
of separate lays, a ' fortuitous concurrence of atoms,' and are more disposed to 
favor the idea of a natural and organic development, — such as was suggested 
for the Odyssey by Eircbhoff in 1859. 



§4b. EPIC POETRY. rii 

b. The Homeric Poems used to be compared with Vergil's Aeneid, 
Dante's Divina Commedia^ and Milton's Paradise Lost. But men have 
come to see a difference between the Natural Epic and the Literary 
Epic. Vergil had no personal (only an artistic) interest in the battles 
and adventures of his hero. He sends Aeneas to Hades simply because 
the Homeric Odysseus had been there ; he makes Aeneas tell the story of 
his wanderings and sufferings to Queen Dido, because Odysseus had told 
a similar story to King Alcinous. Vergil consciously strives to unite the 
characteristics of both Iliad and Odyssey, and begins his poem with 
arma virumque cano, — the arma being for the Iliad and the 
virum for the Odyssey. Vergil is self-conscious, too, in the use of 
cano, — he remembers that he is the court poet of Augustus, and bor- 
rows the word * sing,* although his poem was not meant to be sung but to 
be read. But Homer is in earnest when he says, aetSc tfca, Sing, goddess! 

In the Epics of Vergil, Dante, and Milton, more grace and finish are 
expected, and more studied thought. * The capital distinction of Homeric 
poetry,' as Professor Jebb has well said, *is that it has all the freshness 
and simplicity of a primitive age, — all the charm which we associate 
with the " childhood of the world " ; while on the other hand it has com- 
pletely surmounted the rudeness of form, the struggle of thought with 
language, the tendency to grotesque or ignoble modes of speech, the 
incapacity for equable maintenance of a high level, which belong to the 
primitive stage of literature.' 

c. A great Natural Epic is possible only in a nation which has a rich 
and varied mythology. Hence, the Romans, being without a mythology 
of their own, could have no great Natural Epic. 

§ 4. a. Homer's story of the Siege of Troy certainly was not intended 
as a history of an actual occurrence. The poet says again and again that 
he is of a later generation. He asks the Muse to tell the story, since she 
alone knows what really happened. Doubtless many such battles were 
fought and many such sieges endured in Asia Minor about 1000 years b.c. 

b. Dr. Heinrich Schliemann was led by his Homeric enthusiasm, a few 
years ago, to excavate the site of Hissarlik ('Ilium Novum') in the 
Troad, near the Hellespont, and that of Mycenae in Argolis. In both 
places he found indications and remains of ancient wealth and power 
which justified the Homeric epithets of Ilios and Mycenae, and made 
more probable the belief that the story of the expedition against Troy 
was founded on fact. Mycenae may have been the chief city of Pelopon- 
nesus, at one time. An armada may have been led by the King of 
Mycenae against Troy. But certainly most of the incidents and names 
of heroes were invented. 



viii 



INTRODUCTION. 



§ 5. a. HOMERIC LIFE. The Homeric Poems give a picture of life 
in Greece which differs in important particulars from that of the clas- 
sical or historical period. The poet knows no one name for Greece as 
opposed to other lands. The Greeks are * Argives,* * Achaeans/ or * Da- 
naans.' The * Hellenes ' are as yet only the inhabitants of a small dis- 
trict in Thessaly. The names of ' Attica ' and ' Peloponnesus ' are unheard. 
Thebes seems to be in ruins. Athens has no special distinction. Mene- 
laus, king of Sparta, and his country are comparatively insignificant, 
although the war was undertaken to avenge the wrong which he had 
suffered from Paris. The brother of Menelaus, Agamemnon, king of 
Mycenae, is the chief monarch of Greece. The Greek colonies and the 
Greek cities of Asia Minor are not mentioned. Monarchy prevails ; de- 
mocracies seem to be unknown. The king is also commander-in-chief of 
the army, judge, and priest. As head of the nation he represents it 
before the gods, but his power is practically limited. Public opinion is 
strong, although Homer has no word for law. 

b. Monarchy prevails among the gods as among men. Zeus (* Jupi- 
ter') is mightier than all the rest together. Athena ('Minerva') and 
Apollo are next to Zeus in power. Athena is the chief divinity of war. 
Ares (* Mars ') is comparatively insignificant. Dionysus (* Bacchus ') is 
not as yet admitted to the circle of gods on Olympus. Asclepius (< Aes- 
culapius ') is still a mortal. Pan and the Satyrs are unknown. The 
gift of prophecy is granted to individual men. The oracle of Delphi is 
hardly mentioned. Temples are uncommon. 

c. The Homeric knights do not ride on horseback, but fight from 
chariots. They roast their meat, and do not boil it. They sit at table, 
and do not recline at dinner. They buy their wives by large gifts of 
cattle to the parents. The most useful metal is copper or bronze ; iron 
is little used. Coined money is unknown ; all trade is barter. The occu- 
pations of the rich and poor differ little. Princes tend flocks and build 
houses ; princesses fetch water and wash clothes. The heroes are their 
own butchers and cooks. 

§ 6. THE STORY OF THE ILIAD, a. The action of the Iliad 
itself covers only a few days, but many allusions are made to preceding 
events which complete the story, 

Paris (whose Greek name was Alexander), son of King Priam of Troy 
(or Bios) on the shore of the Hellespont, on the northwest comer of 
Asia Minor, carries away Helen, wife of King Menelaus of Sparta. The 
Achaeans (Greeks) unite to avenge the wrong, under command of Aga- 
memnon, king of Mycenae, the brother of Menelaus. Nestor and Odys- 
seus visit Thessaly and enlist Achilles (son of Peleus and the sea^goddess 



§7 a. THE STORY OF THE ILIAD. ix 

Xhetis) and his friend Patroclus. The Greeks assemble at Aulis. There 
a portent is seen, which the seer Calchas interprets to mean that they 
shall fight for nine years around Troy, and capture the city in the tenth 
year. On their way to Troy, they stop at the island of Lemnos, where 
they are hospitably entertained, and where they leave one of their chief- 
tains, Philoctetes, who has been bitten by a water-snake. On their 
arrival at Troy, Menelaus and Odysseus go to the city as ambassadors, 
and demand the return of Helen, which is refused. Some of the Trojans 
even urge that the ambassadors be put to death, but their host Antenor 
and others secure their safety. The Achaeans begin the siege. The 
Trojans send to their neighbors and gain allies. 

b. The siege is not very close. The Greek camp is at a considerable 
distance from the city, and the Greeks cannot devote all of their time to 
fighting. They are obliged to make expeditions against the neighboring 
towns in order to obtain supplies. In these marauding forays, the men 
of the sacked towns are killed or sent to other countries to be sold as 
slaves; the women are often brought to the Greek camp before Troy. 
Meanwhile, the wealth of the city of Troy is nearly exhausted. The 
Trojans have been obliged to pay and support their allies, and have been 
shut out from the use of their fields. Th^y are afraid to meet the 
Greeks in open battle. 

c. Of the gods, Hera (* J uno '), Athena, and Poseidon (* Neptune *) favor 
the Achaeans; Aphrodite (* Venus Ares, and Apollo favor the Trojans. 

§ 7. a. The Iliad begins in the midst of the tenth year of the war. 
Chryseis, the daughter of a priest of Apollo, had been captured on one of 
the marauding expeditions of the Achaeans, and was given to Agamem- 
non as the * first-fruit ' of the spoils. The captive's aged father comes to 
the Greek camp, bearing the fillets of Apollo as his official insignia, and 
begs to be allowed to ransom his daughter, but Agamemnon sends him 
away, slighting his request. As he leaves the Greek camp, the old priest 
prays for vengeance to his god, Apollo, who hears his prayer and sends 
pestilence upon the Achaeans. For nine days the plague rages in the 
camp, but on the tenth day an assembly is called by Achilles, who 
urges that some seer be questioned of the cause of the god's anger. The 
old seer Calchas tells the truth. Achilles reproaches Agamemnon, and 
the two heroes quarrel. At last Agamemnon sends Chryseis home to her 
father, but takes from Achilles his prize of honor, Brise'is. Achilles begs 
his mother, the sea-goddess Thetis, to invoke the aid of Zeus, praying 
that victory may be granted unto the Trojans until the Achaeans learn 
to value and honor her son's might. This prayer is reluctantly granted 
by Zeuay and the First Book closes with a half-ludicrous scene on Olympus. 



X 



INTRODUCTION. 



b. At the opening of the Second Book, Zens sends to Agamemnon a 
delusive dream, bidding him to arm the Achaeans for battle, with all 
haste. After a council of the elders, Agamemnon tries the temper of the 
soldiers by proposing to return at once to their homes. To his grief, the 
men accede enthusiastically and begin immediately the preparations for 
the voyage. They are stopped by Odysseus, who acts imder the direction 
of Athena. A second assembly is held, the Greeks are shamed and awed 
into remaining, and they prepare for battle. As the Achaean army ad- 
vances against Troy, the poet gives a muster of the forces, — the * Cata- 
logue of the Ships,' — which is followed by a less elaborate enumeration 
of the Trojans and their allies. 

c. At the beginning of the Third Book, the opposing armies are about 
to meet, when Paris challenges Menelaus to a single combat which shall 
decide the war. The two husbands of Helen, — the wronged Menelaus 
and the offending Paris, — are the fit champions of the two armies. This 
scene would naturally belong to the first year of the war ; but as the poet 
begins his story in the tenth year of the war, the best that he can do is to 
make this combat the beginning of the conflicts which he describes. 
Priam is called from Troy, and a truce is struck. K Menelaus slays 
Paris, the Greeks are to take Helen and peaceably return to their homes. 
If Paris slays Menelaus, the Greeks are to withdraw at once. Menelaus 
disables Paris and has him in his power, when Aphrodite snatches up her 
Trojan favorite, and deposits him safely in his home. 

d. The terms of the truce have not been fulfilled. Neither combatant 
has been slain, but the victory fairly belongs to the Greeks. In order 
that the Trojans may not surrender Helen, and preserve their city, Athena 
(who hates Troy) descends a third time to the field of war, and incites a 
Trojan ally to send an arrow at Menelaus. The Greek hero is wounded, 
and the Greeks, indignant at this treacherous breach of the truce, pre- 
pare at once for the battle, and advance upon the enemy, near the close 
of the Fourth Book. 

e. Most of the Fifth Book is devoted to the brave deeds of Diomed, 
Bon of Tydeus. Hera, Athena, Aphrodite, and Ares take part in the 
battle, and the two latter divinities are woimded by Diomed. 

f . In the Sixth Book, the Trojans are hard pressed, and Hector returns 
to the city in order to bid the matrons supplicate Athena's mercy. He 
calls Paris to return to the field of battle, and takes a beautiful and 
pathetic farewell of his wife, Andromache. 

g. The day which began at the opening of the Second Book ends near 
the close of the Seventh Book. The coming on of night puts a stop to a 
single combat between Hector and Telamonian Ajax. The armies strike 



§7o. 



THE STORY OF THE ILIAD. 



xi 



a truce for one day, for the burial of the dead. The Greeks spend 
another day in building a wall about their camp, — a wall which was not 
needed as long as Achilles was fighting on their side, but which is neces- 
sary now that the Trojans are ready to assume the offensive, 

h. The Eighth Book tells of a brief day of battle, in which the fortunes 
of war are continually changing, and in which Zeus continually interferes. 
At the close of this Book, the Achaeans are driven into their camp, and 
welcome the approach of night which affords them relief from pursuit 
and attack. The Trojans bivouac upon the plain and are confident of 
annihilating their enemies on the morrow. 

i. On the night following the battle of the Eighth Book, the Greek 
leaders send to Achilles an embassy, offering him rich gifts, and begging 
him to return to the battle, but he stoutly refuses. The account of this 
embassy fills the Ninth Book. 

j. The Tenth Book narrates the visit (on that same night) of Odys- 
seus and Diomed to the Trojan camp, where they slay Rhesus, the 
Thracian leader, who had just arrived at the field of action. 

k. With the Eleventh Book begins the third of the four days of 
battle of the Iliads — a day which does not close until the end of the 
Eighteenth Book. Agamemnon distinguishes himself now more than on 
any other occasion, but retires from the field wounded, and is followed 
by Diomed and Odysseus who are also disabled. The Trojans press 
forward to the Greek wall, and at the close of the Twelfth Book, Hector 
breaks down the great gates, and opens a way for his comrades into the 
Greek camp. 

1. At the opening of the Thirteenth Book, Poseidon comes from the 
sea in order to aid the Greeks. Hera distracts the attention of Zeus 
while Poseidon and the Achaeans put the Trojans to rout. 

m. At the opening of the Fifteenth Book, Zeus notices what is done 
on the Trojan plain, and sends Poseidon back to his home in the sea. 
The Trojans press forward again and reach the Greek ships, and Hector 
calls for fire that he may burn the fleet. 

n. At the opening of the Sixteenth Book, Patroclus begs Achilles to 
allow him to take the Myrmidons and enter the battle. Achilles sees 
the flicker of fire among the ships ; he consents, and gives his friend his 
own armor to wear, but directs him to be satisfied with driving the 
enemy from the camp, and not to attempt the capture of Troy. Patro- 
clus, however, becomes excited by the fray, and follows the Trojans to 
the very gate of the city. There he is slain by Apollo and Hector. 

o. Most of the Seventeenth Book is devoted to the battle around the 
body of Patroclus. Hector strips off the armor, but the Achaeans with 



xii 



INTRODUCTION. 



§7 p. 



great difficulty secure the corpse and carry it back to the camp, — hard 
pressed by the enemy. 

p. In the Eighteenth Book, Achilles learns with overwhelming grief 
of the death of his comrade. His mother Thetis comes from the sea to 
comfort him. His armor is in the hands of Hector, — stripped from the 
body of Fatroclus. He cannot enter the combat, but he appears unarmed 
at the trench, and frightens away the Trojans. His mother goes to 
Olympus to beg for him beautiful armor from Hephaestus (• Vulcan *). 
Here ends the third day of battle, which began with the opening of the 
Eleventh Book. 

q. In the Nineteenth Book, Achilles is reconciled to Agamemnon. 
His hatred for Hector and his desire for vengeance on the slayer of 
Fatroclus more than overbalance his more ancient grudge. The fourth 
day of the battles of the Iliad begins. The gods descend to take part in 
the battle, but do not affect its issue. 

r. On the opening of the Twenty-second Book, all the Trojans but 
Hector are either slain or within the walls of the city. But Hector does 
not yield to the entreaties of his father and mother, who, from the wall, 
pray him to return. He awaits Achilles and is slain. His body is 
dragged to the camp, after the chariot of Achilles. 

s. The Twenty-third Book is devoted to the burial of Fatroclus, and 
the funeral games in his honor. 

t. In the Twenty-fourth Book, the aged Friam, under the care of the 
gods, goes to the Achaean camp and obtains from Achilles the body of his 
son Hector. The * iracundus, inexorabilis ' Achilles appears in a gentler 
mood. The corpse is brought back to Troy, and the poem closes with the 
funeral of Hector. 

§ 8. Concise Analysis of the Iliad. 

Introduction. A. Festilence. Assembly. Quarrel. Rest from bat- 
tle. Thetis goes to Zeus on the 21st day. 

I. B-H 380. First great battle, on the 22d day. Single combats 
between Faris and Menelaus, Hector and Ajax. 

n. H 381-K. Burial of the dead and building of the wall, on the 23d 
and 24th days. Second great battle, on the 25th day. Embassy to 
Achilles. Odysseus and Diomed enter the Trojan camp. 

III. A-S. Third great battle, on the 26th day. Death of Fatroclus. 
Hephaestus makes armor for Achilles. 

IV. T-X. Fourth battle, on the 27th day. Achilles kills Hector. 
Conclusion. ^, O. Achilles abuses the body of Hector on days 

27-38. Lament for Hector in Troy on days 38-47. Burial of Hector 
and erection of mound over his body, on the 48th and 49th days. 



§9d. AFTER THE ILIAD. xiii 

This scheme shows that the action of the lUad covers but seven 
weeks. Three of these are occupied by the action of the first book, and 
three by that of the last two books ; only four days are spent in fighting. 

§ 9. The Story after the Action of the Iliad. For part of the last act 
in the siege of Troy, indications exist in the Iliad and Odyssey. Many 
other details were added by later poets. 

a. After the death of Hector, the Amazons come to the help of the 
Trojans. Their queen is slain by Achilles. Memnon, — a cousin of 
Hector, — the beautiful son of Eos (Dawn) and Tithonus, comes with his 
Aethiopians. He slays Nestor's son Antilochus, a dear friend of Achilles, 
but is then himself slain by the mighty son of Thetis. Achilles is over- 
come by Apollo and Paris, as he is about to force an entrance to the city 
through the Scaean Gate. His mother comes from the sea, with her 
sister Nereids, and bewails him. She offers his beautiful armor as a 
prize to the bravest of the Greeks, and it is awarded to Odysseus. Tela- 
monian Ajax goes mad in his disappointment at not receiving the armor, 
and commits suicide. Paris is slain, and Helen becomes the wife of his 
brother Deiphobus. Philoctetes, the bearer of the bow of Heracles, is 
brought from Lemnos where he had been left (§ 6, B 721 ff.) ; and 
Neoptolemus, the young son of Achilles, is brought from the island of 
Scyrus. Odysseus enters the city of Troy as a spy, in the guise of a 
beggar. Athena suggests to Odysseus the building of the * wooden 
horse,' in which the bravest of the Achaeans are hidden, while the rest set 
fire to their camp and sail away. The Trojans drag the wooden horse 
within the city, and at night the Greeks return and Troy is sacked. 

b. Agamemnon reaches home in safety, but is treacherously murdered 
by his wife and her paramour, Aegisthus. Menelaus is driven from his 
course by a storm. Most of his ships are wrecked on the coast of Crete. 
He himself, with Helen, is carried by the wind to Aegypt, and wanders 
for eight years before his return to his home at Sparta. 

c. Nestor, Diomed, and Idomeneus reach home safely. Ajax, the son 
of O'ileus, is wrecked and drowned. 

d. Odysseus is driven by the storm to the land of the Lotus Eaters, 
thence to the island of Polyphemus (i), thence to the island of Aeolus, 
to the land of the Laestrygonians (where eleven of his twelve ships are 
destroyed), and to the island of Circe where he and his companions remain 
during a year (#c). Then they go to Hades (X) to consult the old seer 
Teiresias. On their return they pass Scylla and Charybdis, they come to 
the island of the Sun, and (urged by hunger) kill one of his cows. They 
are punished by shipwreck, from which Odysseus alone escapes. He is 
borne to the island of Calypso (/a), where he remains for eight years. Then 



xiv INTRODUCTION. f la 

he returns to his home on Ithaca, enduring many sufferings on the way. 
He finds his faithful wife, Penelope, surrounded by more than a hundred 
young and insolent suitors. These he kills, and regains his kingdom. 

§ 10. The division of the Iliad and Odyssey, each into twenty-four 
books, was not made by the poet himself, nor was it known in the classi- 
cal period. It seems to have been made by the scholars of Alexandria 
about 250 years B.C. The 'books' were lettered not numbered. The 
large letters of the Greek alphabet (A, B, F, jcrX.) are used to indi- 
cate the books of the Iliad; the small letters (a, ^, y, icr\.) are used 
for the books of the Odyssey. 

§ 11. HOMERIC STYLE, a. Matthew Arnold enumerates four es- 
sential characteristics of Homer's poetry : * Homer is rapid in his move- 
ment, Homer is plain in his words and style, Homer is simple in his 
ideas, Homer is noble in his manner. Cowper renders him ill because he 
is slow in his movement and elaborate in his style ; Pope renders him ill 
because he is artificial both in his style and in his words; Chapman 
renders him ill because he is fantastic in his ideas.' 

If poets and masters have thus failed, clearly it is no easy achievement 
to translate Homer well, to be at the same time rapid, plain, simple, and 
noble, — aS irtos ofm irdvra Swi/o-ctu avros cXccr^. The beginner can at 
least be simple ; he should aim to attain the other qualities also. 

b. Pope says in his preface : * That which in my opinion ought to be 
the endeavour of any one who translates Homer, is above all things to 
keep alive that spirit and fire which makes his chief character. In par- 
ticular places, where the sense can bear any doubt, to follow the strongest 
and most poetical, as most agreeing with that character. To copy him 
in all the variations of his style and the different modulations of his 
numbers. To preserve in the more active or more descriptive parts, a 
warmth and elevation ; in the more sedate or narrative, a plainness and 
solemnity ; in the speeches, a fulness and perspicuity ; in the sentences 
[sententiaej^, a shortness and gravity. Not to neglect even the little figures 
and turns on the words, nor sometimes the very cast of the periods. 
Neither to omit or confound any rites or customs of antiquity. ... To 
consider him attentively in comparison with Vergil above all the ancients, 
and with Milton above all the moderns.' 

*The story of the Iliad is the Anger of Achilles, the most short and 
single subject that was ever chosen by any poet. Yet this he has supplied 
with a greater number of councils, speeches, battles, and episodes of all 
kinds than are to be found even in those poems, whose schemes are of the 
utmost latitude and irregularity. The action is hurried on with the most 
vehement spirit, and its whole dursLtion occupies not so much as fifty 



§11 d. 



HOMERIC STYLE. 



XV 



days. Vergil, for want of so warm a genius, aided himself by taking in 
a more extensive subject, as well as a greater length of time, and contract- 
ing the design of both Homer's poems into one which is but a fourth 
part as large as his.' Pope, Translation of Homer, 

c. Cowper says in his preface : ' My chief boast is that I have adhered 
closely to the original, convinced that every departure from him would 
be punished with the forfeiture of some grace or beauty for which I could 
offer no substitute. ... It has been my point eveiywhere to be as little 
verbose as possible. ... In the affair of style, I have endeavoured 
neither to creep nor to bluster, for no author is so likely to betray his 
translator into both these faults as Homer, though himself never guilty 
of either. . . . The passages which will be least noticed . . . are those 
which have cost me abundantly the most labour. It is difficult to kill a 
sheep with dignity in a modern language, to flay and to prepare it for the 
table, detailing every circumstance of the process. Difficult also, with- 
out sinking below the level of poetry, to harness mules to a wagon, par- 
ticularizing every article of their furniture, straps, rings, staples, and even 
the tying of the knots that kept all together. Homer, who writes always 
to the-eye, with all his sublimity and grandeur, has the minuteness of a 
Flemish painter.' Cowper, Translation of the Iliad. 

d. Two passages from the great German critic, Lessing, are worthy to 
be remembered in this connection : • The picture of the plague. What 
do we see on the canvas? Dead bodies, the flame of funeral pyres, the 
dying busied with the dead, the angry god upon a cloud discharging his 
arrows. The profuse wealth of the picture becomes poverty in the 
poet. ... Now let us turn to Homer himself [A 44-53]. The poet 
here is as far beyond the painter as life is better than a picture. Wrath- 
ful, with bow and quiver, Apollo descends from the Olympian towers. 
I not only see him, but hear him. At every step the arrows rattle on the 
shoulders of the angry god. He enters among the host like the night. 
Now he seats himself over against the ships, and with a terrible clang of 
the silver bow sends his first shaft against the mules and dogs. Next he 
turns his poisoned [deadly] darts upon the warriors themselves, and un- 
ceasing blaze on every side the corpse-laden pyres. It is impossible to 
translate into any other language the musical painting heard in the poet's 
words.' Laocoon xiii. (Miss Frothingham's translation.) 

* When Homer wishes to tell us how Agamemnon was dressed, [B 42 ff.] 
he makes the king put on every article of raiment in our presence : the 
soft tunic, the great mantle, the beautiful sandals, and the sword. When 
he is thus fully equipped he grasps his sceptre. We see the clothes while 
the poet is describing the act of dressing. An inferior writer would have 



xvi 



INTRODUCTION. 



f 11 e. 



described the clothes down to the minutest fringe, and of the action we 
should have seen nothing. . . . How does he manage when he desires 
to give a more full and minute picture [B 101 ff.] of the sceptre, which 
is here called only ancestral and undecaying, as a similar one in another 
place is only ^vcrioi^ rjXoun ireirap/ievov^i Does he paint for us, beside 
the golden nails, the wood, and the carved head? He might have done 
so had he been writing a description for a book of heraldry, from which 
at some later day an exact copy was to be made. Yet I have no doubt 
that many a modem poet would have given such heraldic description in 
the honest belief that he was really making a picture himself, because he 
was giving the painter material for one. But what does Homer care how 
far he outstrips the painter? Instead of a copy, he gives us the history 
of the sceptre. First we see it in the workshop of Vulcan ; then it shines 
in the hands of Jupiter ; now it betokens the dignity of Mercury ; now it 
is the baton of warlike Felops ; and, again, the shepherd's staff of peace- 
loving Atreus. . . . And so at last I know this sceptre better than if a 
painter should put it before my eyes, or a second Vulcan give it into my 
hands.' Laocoon xvi. 

e. Direct Discourse, Like the writers of Holy Scripture, and as 
in the simple style of ballads and fairy tales and the conversation of chil- 
dren and uneducated persons, the Homeric poet avoids the use of indirect 
discourse; he has no long passages in oratio obliqua, in the manner of the 
reported speeches in Caesar's Commentaries. He passes quickly from 
indirect to direct discourse. Contrast 6 yap ^XOc &oa^ ciri v^as 'Axawov | 
. . icat XtaacTO Travra^ *A)(auns \ • • vfuv fiev Oeoi SoUv *OXv/x9r(a Btofwr 
^Xovre^ I itcjrlpacLL Uptofwu} ttqAxv, cv K otKoS* Ikco^cu * | irat&i ^ e/uuH 
XwroL T€ <f>CKiijv TO. r airocva ^^adax, \ d^ofjuevoi Ato5 vtdv, ktcqPoKov 'AttoA.- 
Xctfva A 12 ff . with its paraphrase which uses indirect discourse, iXBwv 6 
Iep€V9 evx'^TO CKctW? fuv rovs Ocots Sovvol iXoyra^ rrp^ TpoCay avrovs autOrf- 
voL, r^v Sk Ovyaripa ot \xxTca 8c{a/xei/ov9 airocva koL rov Bthv aJ&fxrBhrra^ icrX. 
in Plato Rep. iii. 393 E. 

f. Principal Clauses, Similar to this avoidance of indirect discourse 
is the poet's frequent and ready transition from a subordinate to a prin- 
cipal clause, as 09 /xcya Travrcov | *ApyctW Kparia koJl 01 ircUBovTOL *A)((UOl 
A 78 f. who rules with might over all the Ar gives and him (for whom) the 
Achaeans obey, ^ enrt ttoXXo. fjLoyrjo'a, Soa-av /xot vie? *AxoMav A 162. 

g. Thus the poet deserts the participial for a finite construction, as 
lourCv T€ TiTva-KOfievoL AaeorcTi t* l^aXXov T 80, where ri . . ri mark the 
imperfect as correlative with the participle. 

h. Order of Words. The simplicity of the Homeric order of words is 
most clearly seen by comparing a passage of Homer, with a similar pas- 



§ 11 m. 



HOMERIC STYLE. 



xvii 



sage of a later Greek poet or of Vergil. Many verses of the Iliad and 
Odyssey can be translated into English, word for word as they stand, as 
<axo/JL€ff cs ^riP-qv Uprjv woXiv *HcTtWos, | Trjv Sk St^irpajSofiev re koI rjyofjLCV 
€v$aj8e Travra, | . . cic ^ IXxjv 'ArpeiSv; Xpv(n/6Sa KoXXnrdpyov icr\. A 366 ff. 
When the order differs essentially from the English, there are generally 
rhetorical or poetical reasons why the order is what it is. No one should 
suppose that the metre compelled the poet to adopt an arrangement of 
words that was not natm*al and did not please him. The verse gave 
prominence not merely to the first word but often to the word before the 
principal caesural pause (§ 58). 

i. The thought of each Homeric verse is somewhat more independent 
than is the case in later poetry. Other things being equal, a word should 
be construed with words in the same rather than in another verse. Rarely 
does a descriptive adjective at the close of one verse agree directly with a 
noun at the beginning of the next. 

j. A noun at the close of one verse often has an adjective apparently 
in agreement with it at the beginning of the next verse, but this adjective 
may be regarded as in apposition with the noun ; it frequently serves to 
form a closer connection with a following amplifying clause, as fjojviv aciSc 
Oea . . I mikoixhrqv fivpC *A;(a«)is &X.y€* iOyKcv A 1 f., where the relative 
clause explains ovXofjJvrp^ : the torath was mortal, deadly^ because it brought 
ten thousand woes upon the Achaeans. So a few verses later, vovaroy ava 
arparov (ap<r€ Kam/v, 6\€kovto 8c Xoot A 10, the position of the adjective 
Kojcqv is explained by its connection with the thought of the following 
clause. Cf. vvv avri fuv vies 'A;(aMov | cv iraXjaifirf^ f^topiovtri StKocrTroXoi oi 
rc Oifiurra^ | irpb^ A109 etpmrat A 237 ff., where SiKaxriroXjoi is explained 
by the following clause, avrov thus often contrasts a man with his com- 
panions or possessions, as diro fUv <f>0<a tlpara Sixrco | avrov 3c KXmovra 
Ooajs CTTi v^as d^crco B 261 ff. 

k. The subject of the sentence usually precedes its verb. Almost 
every exception to this remark is found either at the close of the verse, 
or (less frequently) before the principal caesura where the same metrical 
freedom was allowed as at the end of the verse, § 59 a 3. 

1. In order to give prominence to an important word, it is sometimes 
placed before the relative word of the clause to which it belongs, as 
i7a<i)rcpo9 cos «€ vetfu A 32. This is especially frequent when the sub- 
ordinate clause precedes the principal sentence, as ^Eicrcop 8* m ^Koias rc 
irvAas . • iKavcv, | d/i^* dpa /uv . . Oiov ktX. Z 237. 

m. Adnoininal genitives, like adjectives, generally precede their noun, 
except at the close of the verse or before a caesural pause, but there are 
many exceptions to the rule in the case of adjectives, principally perhaps 



xviii 



INTRODUCTION. 



f lln. 



where the adjective and substantive are closely connected. A preposition 
often stands between the adjective and noun, as ^vaiw dm atcqirrpij^ A 
15, 6oas CTTi vrja^ A 12, ^luript^ m oiic<p A 30, vrja^ hn yAa^vpas F 119. 

n. The infinitive generally follows the verb on which it depends. 

o. When a noun is modified by two adjectives, it frequently is pre- 
ceded by one and followed by the other, as irapa vrfi fieXoLVQ A 300. 
So in English poetry < human face divine,' * purest ray serene,' * old man 
eloquent.' 

§ 12. Epithets, a. Ornamental epithets frequently have reference to 
the most marked natural characteristics of an object rather than to a 
particular occasion. The ships are swift (Ooai) even when they are drawn 
up on land (A 300 and passim) . The heaven is starry even in broad day- 
light, Z 108. Homer calls milk Xcvicov, — of course, not to distinguish 
white milk from milk of another color, but to bring the object vividly 
before the mind by mentioning a quality of it which all would recognize 
as belonging to the nature of the object. The choice among these stere- 
otyped conventional epithets was often determined by the convenience oi 
metre or rhythm (see § 22 Z» f.). 

b. Almost every prominent person in the poems has some special epi- 
thet or epithets. Pope calls these * a sort of supernumerary pictures of 
the persons or things they are joined to. We see the motion of Hector's 
plumes in the epithet KopvOalokK.* No one but Athena is yXavKwri^ 
and the adjective becomes virtually a proper name. She bears this 
epithet 90 times, generally in the phrase Oca yXavKutm^ 'A^ny. She is 
HaXXas 'A^ny 41 times. The Achaeans are ivianqfuSes 'Axaiot 36 times, 
Kaprj KOfiowvreq 29 times, in the genitive 'Axotcov x<'^'(oxira)vci>v 24 times, 
vle9 'Axoutfv 64 times, Aoos *Ax<uSiv 22 times, KovpoL *Axauav 9 times. Aga- 
memnon is &va( dvSptov 45 times in the Iliad and thrice in the Odyssey, 
while this title is given to only five other chiefs, once to each. Achilles is 
TToSapKYi^ Sioq 'Ax^AXevs 21 times, woSa^ toKv^ *A;(iXXcvs 30 times, wo^kco^ 
AIolklSoo 10 times, iro&uKca UrjktLnwa 10 times. Hector is KopvOatoXjK 37 
times, <^'iSi/Ao$ ''Efcrcop 30 times. C/*. pius Aeneas, fidus Achates. 

c. The situation of the moment seems sometimes to contradict the 
epithet, as rov i&ov ptyiyo-e ^o^v dyajOo^ Aio/iiySi/s E 596 at sight of him 
Diomed good at the war cry shuddered. 

d. Synonymous Expressions. The poet is fond of a cumulation of 
synonymous or nearly synonymous expressions, many of which remind 
the reader of redundant legal expressions, as <^a>n;ora9 irpooTfvSa A 201 
lifted up his voice and addressed her, Ittos t c^mt Ik t ovofm^ev A 361 
spoke a word and called upon him, ifiaj (oivros koi iirl xOovl BepKOfitvoio 
A 88, airptarrfv dvaTroivov A 99, rcov ov ri fUTarpeinj ovS* aXcyi^eiq A 160, 



§13. 



HOMERIC STYLB. 



zix 



iroXtfiJbi T€ fidxajL re A 177, iravraw fih Kparecw c^e\ci irdvrtaat 8* dvaxraeiVy ] 
irSxn 8c ayf/mLV€iv A 288 f., ovr upofuu ovtc /leraXXSi A 553, o^ecu el k 
iOeXtfoda Kol a k€i/ tol ra fUfXT^ky A 353, •^yyrope^ rjSk /xcSoktcs B 79. 
Sometimes the same stem is repeated for emphasis, in a different form, 
as oil/ifwv o^iriKeaTov B 325. 

e. Epexegesis. A clause is often added epexegetically, to explain a 
preceding clause or word, as fx^viv . . ovXofjievrjv rj /ivpi* 'A;(aiors SXye 
IOtjkcv a 1 f., rd T€ Swp' *A<^po&Ti7s, | rj re KOfi-q to tc ciSos T 54 f. For 
explanatory asjmdeton, see § 15 b. 

f . The species often follows in apposition with the genus, as Kvfjuara 
fiOKpa BaXda-arj^ \ irovrov *lKaploLo B 144 f ., fimj^ \ ravpoq B 480 f . Cf. 
the explanatory use of the infinitive, as epiSi ^werjKe yudx^odax A 8 brought 
together in strife, to contend. 

g. Thus also the part of the mind or body which is employed or 
especially affected is mentioned, as ovk *Ayafi€fjjovL ijv&ivc ^fjM A 24, 
X<Do/i£vo$ K^p A 44, KexpLpoiaTO Ovijm A 256, Iv 6<l>0aXfjjounv opSxrScu T 306. 

h. Stereotyped Expressions, The same expressions recur under similar 
circumstances. We find a stereotyped description of a feast and of the 
preparations for it, of the breaking of day and of the approach of night, 
of doffing or donning sandals and armor ; there are conventional expres- 
sions for setting out on a journey, for an attack in battle, for the fall 
and death of a warrior, for lying down to rest. Speeches are introduced 
and followed by set verses, as kcu /uv (or or^as) ^wnyaas iirea irrepoeyra 
irptxnju^ A 201, and in fifty other places ; o cr^iv cv <l>poy€<ov dyofyrja-aro 
KCU /jicrcciTrev A 73 and in fourteen other places, while the second hemi- 
stich is found several times in other combinations ; ^ rot o y <Ss cittwv mr 
ap cfcTo, Totd-t S* dvcony A 68, 101, B 76. These stereotyped verses 
have been compared with the frequently recurring * And Job answered 
and said,' * Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,' of the book 
of Job, and with the set form in which the reports of the messengers 
were brought to the man of Uz, — each of the four reports ending * and 
I only am escaped alone to tell thee.* 

§ 13. a. Parechesis, Onomatopoeia, etc. The poet seems to have looked 
with indifference on the similarity of sound in neighboring words. He 
does not appear to have designed the rhyme in iKiaOai, ^€\€(t$cu A 19 f., 
SoKrct, dTroxrct A 96 f ., ^(covaa, reKovora A 413 f ., ipvaaav, rdwaa'av A 485 f ., 
or between the two hemistichs of a verse, as Iottctc vvv fwi Movacu *0\vpr 
TTia Sco/iar* cxovorot B 484. 

Most exaniples of parechesis {iraprfxqo^si) and alliteration are probably 
accidental, as ttoXXcw Ik trokCmv B 131, h iroXjepav TrcoXi/o'ctu E 350, irarpL 
TC <r<f pAya injpa voXrji tc 'jravri tc &jpM V 50. 



XX 



INTRODUCTION. 



§18 b. 



b. Occasionally an onomatopoetic (oKopiroirotca), imitative expres- 
sion is used, giving a kind of echo in the sound, as rpiyBa rc kcu rcrpaxOd 
r 363, of the breaking of the sword of Menelaus ; cic 8c XpwrrfU 10709 ^rj 
irovTorjTopoio A 439, where a vivid imagination may perhaps hear the 
measured steps of the damsel as she leaves the ship, with a quick rush at 
the close ; avri? hrtira ttcSovSc #cvXtv8ero XSm dvoi&Js X 598, of the rolling 
back of the stone which Sisyphus in Hades was continually urging to the 
summit of a hill. 

c. The poet plays occasionally on the names of his heroes, as TLpoOoo^ 
^oos lyycfidvcvcv B 758 (" swift by nature as well as by name "), TXt/ttoXc- 
yuov . . rkrjfiova Ovfwv Ix^^ ^^f^fop , . ttov artp Aacov 
trokiv €$€pjev E 472 f ., whertf c^c/xcv seems to be selected with reference to 
the assumed etymology of ^EKTiop. 

§ 14. a. Comparisons, A notable characteristic of Homeric style is 
the comparison. This is designed to throw into high relief some point 
in the action narrated ; it often relieves the monotony of the description 
of a battle. But the poet is not always satisfied to illustrate the partic- 
ular point for which the comparison is introduced ; he often completes 
the picture by adding touches which have nothing to do with the 
narrative. 

b. Illustrations are furnished by all experiences of life, from the 
lightning of Zeus and the conflict of opposing winds, from the snow- 
storm and the mountain torrent, to a child playing with the sand on the 
seashore, and a little girl clinging to her mother's gown ; from lions and 
eagles, to a stubborn ass which refuses to be driven from a cornfield by 
children, and to a greedy fly ; from the evening star, to women wrangling 
in the street. The lion is a special favorite, and appears in comparisons 
thirty times in the Iliad. 

c. Homer, like Milton, could not think of an army in motion without 
thinking of its resemblance to something else. Just before the Cata- 
logue of the Ships, the movements of the Achaean armies are described 
by six detailed comparisons, B 455-483 : the brightness of their armor is 
compared with the gleam of fire upon the mountains ; their noisy tumult, 
with the clamor of cranes or swans on the Asian plain ; in multitude, 
they are as the innumerable leaves and flowers of spring-time ; they are 
impetuous and bold as the eager flies around the farm buildings ; they are 
marshalled by their leaders as flocks of goats by their herds ; their leader 
(Agamemnon) is like to Zeus, to Ares, to Poseidon, — he is preeminent 
among the heroes as a bull in a herd of cattle. 

d. The Iliad has 182 detailed comparisons, 17 briefer (as Trcaalv Iolko- 
rc9 riyopaaxrSt \ Kiprtaxots 0I9 ov rt fie\ct TroXe/uiiyta Ipya B 337 f .), and 28 



§16. 



HOMERIC STYLE. 



xxi 



of the briefest sort. The Odyssey has 39 detailed comparisons, 6 briefer, 
and 13 very brief. The first book of the Iliad has only two compari- 
sons, and those of the briefest, 6 S rju wktI cockcos A 47, -qvr ofux^V 
A 359. 

e. Comparisons are introduced by q>9 re, <us ci, ore, cSs irtp ktX. 

Fraepositive W9 is not used in comparisons. In the briefest compari- 
sons, postpositive m is often used, generally lengthening the preceding 
syllable (§ 59 j'). 

f. The aorist indicative (the so-called < gnomic aorist') is often used 
in comparisons. 

§ 15. a. Asyndeton. In the Homeric period more frequently than in 
later Greek, sentences were left imconnected by conjunctions, i.e. asyn- 
deton (H. 1039) was allowed more freely. Ornamental epithets are 
not connected by kcu, and sometimes in animated discourse the poet 
uses no conjunction between clauses or words, as dTrpian/v Avdiroivov 
A 99. 

b. Asyndeton of sentences is most frequent where the second sentence 
explains the first and is in a kind of apposition with it, repeating the 
thought in a different form : oXAa koI m iB^hn So/uievtu ttoXiv ei rd y* 
aifieivcv ' \ PovXofi cyco Aaov aoov Ifjuitvax rj atrok€<rOai A 116 f ., & ttottoc, 
^ /xeya ircvOo^ ^A^cuiSa yalav iKavei * | ^ kcv yyfdrj&ax TLpCafjm TLpidfJuoio rc 
wat^q A 254 f., aXX avrjp c^eXei rrcpl travrtav ifijJievaJL oAAcov, | irdvTtav 
fjuev Kpariav c^cXci iravrccro-t S* dvocro-civ A 287 f. In B 299, tX^tc ^iAxm 
Kot fuivar hrl )(p6vov gives the sum of the preceding sentence, and the 
asyndeton marks the speaker's warmth of feeling. 

c. An adversative relation (biU) is occasionally expressed by an asyn- 
deton, especially with ye fiev in the second clause, as B 703, E 516. 

d. The absence of a conjunction often gives rapidity to the style and 
thus is found often where the second sentence begins with avrUa or 
at^a, as ei ^ aye /i^v iretfyrjaxu . . oT^d rot alfm KeXxavbv ipoyqa-a irepl 
Sovpi A 302 f ., avTiKa KCprofuoun Ami Kpovicova trpoarfvSa A 539, cf. B 442. 

§ 16. a. Chiasmus,^ For emphasis, the poet sometimes so arranges 
the words of two clauses that the extremes, as also the means, are cor- 

^ The name is given from the Greek letter X, there being a crossing of 
ideas as 

ficuriKt^s &ya665 
KparepSs ^ alxfirrHis T 179. 

It should be noticed that this chiastic arrangement is often the most simple 
and natural, as in the first example above, where <roi at once suggests the 
other person interested, *o70os. 



xxii 



INTRODUCTION. 



i 16 b. 



relative with or contrasted with each other, as mSd rc arot dycjficv* 
$oi)3a> ff iepvpf ^Karofi^riy A 443, where muSa and hanofiPijy, aoC and 
^P<f respectively are contrasted. Cf. <5s 'AxiX^ | Ti/irjoTfs oXiarj^ 
iroKw A 558 f., dvafieviotv /w X°Pf^ Kany^tiyv 8c otH avrt^ T 51, apv , 
mpov kevKoVf Irtfyqy Sk fitXaivav, \ rc icai *HcA/<p P 103 f., where the 
black lamb was for and the white for *He\io9y — /SotriXcvs t dyo^os 
KpaT€po^ T td')(iMjfrrp V 179, where the adjectives are brought together. 
Cf. Milton's * Sweet is the breath of mom, her rising sweet,' Par. Lost 
IV. 641, < Adam the goodliest man of men since bom | His sons, the fairest 
of her daughters Eve,' Par. Lost IV. 323 f . 

b. Epanalepsis. Sometimes a word (generally a proper name) or a 
clause is repeated in the same sentence at the beginning of a new verse. 
Cf, Milton's Lycidas 37 f. *But O the heavy change, now thou art 
gone, I Now thou art gone and never must retum.' The name is repeated 
at the beginning of three successive verses (Nt/9cvs . . Ntpcvs . • Ncpcvs) 
B 671 ff. Cf also B 838, 850, 871, Z 154. The name when repeated is 
attracted into the case of the following relative pronoun, in *AvSpo/iax>7» 
Ovyarrfp fLcyoXiyTO/jos 'Hctouvos, | 'HctiW emicv xnro TLXwaa vkrfiarfrg 
Z 395 f. Andromache, daughter of the greatsouled Eetion, Eetion who dwelt 
ai the foot of woody Placus. 

c. Litotes (XiTOTTji or /ulwm), a simplicity of language, or understate- 
ment of the truth, is common to all languages. Milton's ' unblest feet ' is 
stronger than cursed feet. Homeric examples abound, as ovk *Ayafi€/ivoyt 
•^vSave $vfJM A 24: it was not pleasing to the soul of Agamemnon, i.e. it was 
hateful, etc. ; &^ cs kovXcov uktc /icya {t<^$ ou8' aTriOrjaey \ fivSta *AOrj- 
vahfi A 220 f. hack into the sheath he thrust his great sword nor did he disobey 
the word of ^Athena, i.e. he obeyed; '"EtKnap 8* ov ri OeSs liros yyvoirjaey 
B807. 

d. a. Periphrasis. Certain periphrases occur frequently, as dfcrc 8^ 
TLpLaifiMo pCrjiv V 105 bring the might of Priam, i.e. the mighty Priam, Ha- 
^Aaydva>v 8* i/yetro HvAai/xei/cos Xoctlov K^p B 851, ij Ittci Svrja-as Kpahuqv 
Aios 17c icoi cpyo) A 395. Cf ' First, noble friend, let me embrace thine 
age,' Shakspere Tempest V. i. 

p. 8ovA.tov ^/iap Z 463 is simply a poetic expression for slavery, cXcv* 
Otpov rjiiop for freedom. 

e. Zeugma. Sometimes two connected subjects or objects are made 
to depend on a verb which is appropriate to but one of them, as rj fjutv 
Ivara \ C19 oXa aXro . . | Zcvs 8c cov irpo^ SStfrn (sc. tpri) A 531 ff. she then 
leaped into the sea, hut Zeus went to his own house, rjx*' €Kdarrov \ ittttoi 
dep<ri7ro8cs fcoi irotiaXa tcv^c* Hkcito T 326 f. where the high-stepping horses 
of each were standing and the bright armor was lying, Cf Shakspere^ 



§18 b. 



HOMERIC SYNTAX. 



xxiii 



Sonnet 55, 7 * Nor Mars his sword, nor war's quick fire shall bum [ The 
living record of your memory,' 

f. Hysteron Proteran, Occasionally the more important or obvious 
object or action is mentioned before another which should precede it in 
strict order of time, as ofw, Tpd<f>€y ^8c yhovro A 251 were bred and horn 
with him. Cf. Shakspere Twelfth Night I. ii. * For I was bred and born | 
Not three hours' travel from this very place ' and Vergil's moriamur et in 
media arma ruamus, 

§ 17. Later Change in Words* The student must be watchful to 
apprehend the exact Homeric meaning of words which are used in a 
slightly different sense in later Greek. Thus dyopi] and ayiav ai*e used in 
Homer of an assemhly, gathering, not of market and contest, *Kl&q^ is 
always the name of a person, not of a place. doi&>9, doi^, are used for 
the Attic iroitjfrq^y v/iyo^, — cttos is , used for koyoq, icoa/A€o> for Toxram. 
Scivos means terrible, not skilful, Selnvov is the principal meal of the 
day, whenever it is taken, lyxos means spear, never sword, ijptai is 
used of all the warriors ; it does not mean a hero in the English sense. 
Kpcm is select, discriminate, rather than judge, vocco often has the sense 
of aiaOdyofuu (which is not Homeric) , /)erc«rtf. ovofuu is not blame in a 
general way, but think not enough, insufficient, ouro^co is wound unth a 
weapon held in the hand, not with a missile, irifiino is escort, attend, as 
well as send; cf. iro/uwny convoy, -toXc/aos is often battle rather than war. 
TTfyqcraui is carry through rather than (fo as in Attic. (r^cSoi^ is near, of 
place, not almost, awfjixi is used only of a dead body, Sc/xas being used of 
the living form, and avros and irepl xpdt taking some of the Attic uses of 
aw/xa. Toxa always means quickly, never perhaps as in later Greek. 
rlBrffU is often used like iroUio make. fl>6po^ is not fright but flight; 
ffioPeofmi is not fear but flee. <us does not mean since. 

§ 18. HOMERIC SYNTAX, a. In syntax as in forms, where the Ho- 
meric dialect differs from the Attic, it may be presumed that the Homeric 
usage is the earlier. The language was less rigid ; custom had not yet 
established certain constructions as normal. There was greater freedom 
in the use of the modes and the cases, of prepositions and conjunctions. 

b. It is impossible to bring the Homeric uses of the modes under the 
categories and rules that prevailed in the Attic period. Intermediate in 
force between the simple future and the potential optative with dv were 

(1) the subjunctive as a less vivid future, as ov yap iria rotovs ISw 
dyipaji ovSe t&ofuu A 262 / never yet saw such men nor shall I see them. 
(H. 868; G. 1321.) 

(2) the subjunctive with k€v or av, as a potential mode, as ct 8c firj 
SfMoatv, cyctf Sc kcv avros iXcofuu A 137 but if they shall not give it, I myself 



xxiv 



INTRODUCTION. 



§18c. 



toill then take, etc. ovk dv roi XP^HV '^ti^op^s T 54 the cithara would not in 
that case avail thee. 

c. The subjunctive is used more freely in Homer than in later Greek. 

d. a. Homer prefers a with the subjunctive to c? kcv (a7 k€v) or ei S» 
with the subjunctive, ci ay is not used in general conditions. 

p. a fccv is rarely used with the optative (29 times in all) ; never in 
the expression of a wish, ci av is used with the optative but once, ci ircp 
av avroi | fjuovam aeiSoccv B 597 f . 

y. The optative in indirect discourse is used for the indicative in 
direct discourse only in questions. 

S, In six passages the optative with Key is used in the apodosis, where 
Homeric and Attic usage alike lead us to expect av with a past tense of 
the indicative, as kcu vv k€v tvff aaroKwro dvai aa^pStv AlvtCa^y \ ci firi Sp* 
6$v vovjce Aios Ovydrrfp *A<l>poS{'nj E 311 f . " Aeneas would have perished 
if Aphrodite had not perceived," etc. 

§ 19. a. The cases retained more of their original force than in Attic 
and had less need of a preposition to make the construction distinct (it 
was once thought that the poet omitted the preposition for the conve- 
nience of his verse), as the ablatival genitive in cpicos *Axcuounv ?re\cTai 
fToXc/ACMo KOKoio A 284 is a bulwark for the Achaeans from (to keep off) 
evil war, KapiraXCfim dvcSu rroXi^^ aXos rjvr opixKrj A 359 swiftly she rose 
as a mist out of the hoary sea. The dative of place is often found without 
a preposition, as roC &pjounv €x«>v A 45 having his how upon his shoulder. 

b. The prepositions still retained much of their adverbial nature, and 
had not become fixedly attached to the verbs which they modified (§ 55). 
It was once thought that the occasional separation of verb and preposi- 
tion was a poetic license, and (considered as a surgical operation) it was 
called tmesis. 

c. In the Homeric period certain constructions were only beginning 
to appear definitely in use, such as the accusative with the infinitive, and 
the genitive absolute. 

d. a. The genitive absolute is more frequent with the present parti* 
ciple than with the aorist participle. The genitive absolute with omitted 
Bubject is particularly rare, and is denied by most scholars. The parti- 
ciple sometimes seems to be used with omitted subject when it really 
agrees with the genitive implied in a preceding dative. 

p. It is often impossible to say categorically whether the genitive is 
in the absolute construction or rather depends on some other word, as 
xnrb Sk Tpioes K€)(aSovTO \ avSpos aKovrCaauvTo^ A 497 f., where the posi- 
tion of t^e genitive at the beginning of the verse gives it greater inde- 
pendence, but it was probably influenced by the verb, the Trojans drew 



§20. 



HOMERIC SYNTAX. 



XXV 



back from the man as he hurled his javelin ; cf. iicXay^av dp* ourroi iir 
wfifuv \<oofifvoio I avrov KivrjOevToq A 46 f . 

y. Sometimes a preposition is used where the genitive absolute would 
be used in Attic prose, as afiffn 8c v^c? | (Tfitp^aXiov KovaiPrjauv dvcravrow 
inr *A)((ii(av B 333 f . 

e. The dative of interest is often used with the verb where the English 
idiom prefers a possessive genitive with a noun, as heivm 8c ot 6<r<r€ <f>a 
avOtv A 200 terribly did her (lit. for her the) eyes gleam ; or is used instead 
of an ablatival genitive with a preposition, as Aavaouriv deiKca Xoiyov 
airilxr€t A 97 will ward off ignominious destruction from (lit. /or) the Danai; 
or instead of a genitive with verbs of ruling and leading, as iravrccro-i 8* 
dmo-creiv A 288 to reign over (lit. be the king for) all; or instead of an 
adverbial expression, as touti 8* dvc'oTTy A 68 for them rose (not to be 
taken as a local dative, among them). 

f. tnro is used with the dative in almost the same sense as with the 
genitive in Attic, as i^firj wo X^P^^ woSwKeoq AioKtSao B 860 he was slain 
by the hands of the swift-footed Aeacides, with perhaps more of the original 
local force of the preposition. 

g. Some constructions were used more freely and constantly than in 
later Greek. Certain of these were always looked upon as poetic, as OtCri 
irthiou} Z 507 shall run over the plain, Xav€.crOax worafwio Z 508. For the 
genitive of the place to which the action belongs, see H. 760 ; G. 1137. 

h. A neuter noun in the plural is the subject of a plural verb more 
frequently than in Attic. The imperfect is more freely used in narra- 
tive, to describe an action as in progress. The historical present is not 
used. ccTTi is not always a mere copula, and is occasionally modified by 
an adverb, as a true verb of existence, of iireC vv roi dau /uvwOd irtp, ov 
Ti frnKoL Sijv A 416 since thy appointed time of life is brief etc., and fuwvOa 
8c oi yeyeff opfi-q A 466 but brief was his onset. 

§ 20. a. Particles, cu The beginner in reading Homer is perplexed by 
a large number of particles that are often difiicult to render by English 
words. Their force can often be best given by the order of the words in 
the translation or by the tone of voice in reading. To translate pd as was 
natural (or even you see) or yc at least, often throws upon the particle 
very disproportionate emphasis. The student can most easily and clearly 
appreciate the force of a particle by comparing a number of examples 
which have become familiar to him ; he will then see the importance of 
these particles to the character and tone of a speech or of the narrative. 

fi. ri is used far more freely than in Attic prose. A single tc is often 
used to connect single notions, as kwccto-iv | otcovoto-i tc A 4 f . 

y. 6<l>pa is the usual particle to introduce a final clause. 



XX vi 



INTRODUCTION. 



f 20h. 



b. Interrogative Particles, a. The general interrogative particle in 
Homer is ^, but in a doable question (where the Attic Greek uses wore* 
poy , rj OT stands in the first member, ^ or ^ in the second, cf* 
A 190 ff. 

p. When ^ introduces a single question, it is rarely used as in Attic, 
as a mere interrogation point. It regularly implies emotion of some kind. 

§ 21. a. Parataxis, The Homeric language is far less distinct than 
the Latin or the English in the expression of logical relations, and gives 
less prominence to the logical forms of syntax ; but it is seldom difficult 
to appreciate the ancient idiom if an attempt is made to find the Homeric 
point of view. 

The Homeric poems contain many survivals of the simplest form of 
sentences. In the earliest stage of the Greek language, clauses were not 
combined with each other as secondary and principal ; they were simply 
added one to the other. To use the technical terms, coordination or 
parataxis (impoTaii^) was the rule, — not subordination or hypotaxis (wro- 
ra^is). Originally the relatives were demonstratives, and relative sen- 
tences have been called < parenthetic demonstrative sentences.' Thus 8c 
was used in the apodosis of relative and conditional sentences. This was 
especially frequent when the relative or conditional clause preceded, as 
ci 3c ICC fi^ ScooKTiv, cyctf 8c Kcv avro9 ekiofuu A 137 but if they shall not give 
it, (but) I myself shall then take, etc, clos 6 ravff lopfjuuve . . ^XBe 8* *A&rjvrj 
A 193 f. while he was pondering thu . . . (but) Athena came, oirj irep fl>vW<av 
ycvci;, Toirj 8c kcu dv8pa>v Z 146 as is the race of leaves, (but) such is also the 
race of men. So airdp and dAAa are used with stronger emphasis than 
8c, as ci 8c (TV KOLprepos ccrori, Oea 8c ore ycLvaro prfrqp \ dX\* o8c ^iprr€p6i 
lariv lird TrXcdvccrcriv dvourcrci A 280 f. but if thou art mighty and a goddess 
is thy mother, but, etc, where the apodosis is really contrasted with the 
protasis, cf A 81 quoted in the next paragraph. 

b. Compare with the foregoing the use of kol in the conclusion of 
relative sentences, to mark the connection of the clauses. Thus also rc 
was freely used in subordinate clauses, as os icc $€ois hmruBrfrax pjoXa r* 
IkXvov avrov A 218 whoever obeys the gods, (and) himself the gods readily 
hear; and rc — tc is found in both protasis and apodosis, marking their 
correlation, as ci Trcp yap rc xokov . . Karairc^, | dAXa rc icai perairurOey 
€X^i Korov A 81 f . for even if he should restrain his wrath, but even here-- 
after etc 

c. The first part of a paratactic sentence may introduce the cause or 
reason for what follows, as in Andromache's words to Hector, "Eicrop 
Arap (TV pjoL io'O'L Trarrjp koI ttotvul prjfryjp, \ 178^ Koxrlyvrjfrof^, ov 8c pjot Ba» 
X€po^ mpoKOLTtyi ' I aXX dye vvy i\&up€ koI ovtov tiiwf cttI ?rupy<p Z 429 fE. 



§22. 



THE HOMERIC DIALECT. 



xxvii 



But thoUf Hector, art my father etc.y which uuplies Hector, since thou 
art my all." 

d. Correlative Constructions, The Greek language was always fond 
of a parallel or antithetic construction, a contrast, a balance, where the 
English subordinates one thought to the other ; but the adversative rela- 
tion, where the English idiom would use a subordinate clause introduced 
by for, although, when, while, or since, is more frequent in these poems 
than in later Greek, as oXAa wCOea-ff * afi^a> Sk vtwipm iarov i/ielo A 259, 
<l>vXXa ra /xey r* avc/i09 x^fwJ^i^ xiei, aWa 8c ff vXrf \ TrfXeOowra ^vo, eopos 
8* hriyCyverax iLprq Z 147 f. . . when the season of Spring comes on, '^fiky 817 
TTor* ifiai wdpoi IkXv€9 €v^a/jL€voio . . ^8* In koL vvv fiM rdS* etru^prfqvcv 
ifXSfop A 453 ff. as thou didst hear my former prayer so now also fulfil this 
my desire. 

e. avrdp also is used where a causal paiiiicle would be used in English, 
as oBvygai wewap/Aevoq * avrap otoros | (S/iuo cvt aTtj3ap<p lyXi/Aaro E 399 f. 
thrilled with pains since the arrow was fixed in his stout shoulder. 

f . In these contrasted clauses, av, avrc, avrdp, ardp, aXXd, as well as 8e, 
may be used in correlation with /jLcy. 

g. A copulative conjunction is sometimes used where the English uses 
a disjunctive or, as rpiirXy tct/klttX^ tc A 128 threefold or (and) fourfold, 
in which prominence is given to the second member. Cf. ha koI 8uo 
B 346, x^'i^ 

irpml^d B 303, Tpt^^a re koi rerpaxBd V 363, O terque 
quaterque beati, Verg. Aen. I. 94. 

. h. The Homeric poet sometimes puts into an independent clause the 
incidental thought which in later Greek would be expressed regularly by 
a participle, as Aaoc 8* ^p-qauvro Oeol^ 18c xelpa^ aLV€axpv T 318 the people 
prayed to the gods with uplifted hands (lit. and lifted their hands) for x^H^'S 
ayaxrx6vT€^, cf. /leydX €v;(cto, x^ipa? ^yaax'^y A 450 ; (Zcvs /lepfii^piie c5s 
*AxiX^) Tifn^frrj, oXiarj Sk iroXia^ iirl vrpjolv ^AxpJMV B 4 was pondering 
how he might honor Achilles by destroying (lit. and destroy) etc.; cf yXOe 
^cpaiv, Ix^^ A 12 f . ; AXX* oK&mm KoBrfo-o, cfuu 8* hriireiOeo fivO<^ A 565 
for ipj^ TTtiSo/Aevq pvOw. See § 11 g. 

i. Conversely, the participle, as in later Greek, often contains the 
principal idea, as Kareycvo'cv | *I\tov iKwipauvr cvreix^ov aTrovieaOoL B 113 
promised that I should sack Ilios, and return, but in the very next verse is 
the English idiom, vvv 8c Koicqv airdrrfv PovXcwmTo, koC /eac kcXcvci | dvaxXia 
"Apyoi ucea^ai B 114 f . planned an evU deceit and bids me go etc., for hrdr 
rrjv PovXevau^. 

§ 22. THE HOMERIC DIALECT, a. The dialect of the Homeric 
poems is in one sense artificial: it was spoken at no place and at no 
time. But it is not a mosaic composed of words, and forms chosen capri- 



xxviii 



INTRODUCTION. 



§22 b. 



cioosly from the different Greek dialects; it is a product of natural 
growth. The poets unconsciously excluded all that was not adapted to 
dactylic verse, but they did no violence to their language ; they did not 
wantonly change quantities or introduce new terminations. 

b. The conservation of old forms together with the introduction of 
new forms was very convenient for the verse ; e.g. for the infinitive of 
the verb to he. Homer could use c/i/ticm as dactyl, _ w w ; cficvai as ana- 
paest, \j \j ; tfjLyuev as trochee, ^ ; tijucv as pyrrhic, \j \j ; civou as 

spondee, . Naturally, the choice being offered, metrical conven- 
ience determined which of these forms should be used. Metrical con- 
venience often or generally decided between the use of 'Axatot or *Apy€ioL 
We must always remember that the Homeric dialect was not a modifica- 
tion of the Attic dialect, and was not derived from it, but that it repre- 
sents an older stage of the language. Many Attic forms can be derived 
from the Homeric forms. 

c. The same is true in the case of synonyms and stock epithets or 
phrases, dvai dvSpcuv 'Aya/ic/ivw is used after the feminine caesura 
(§ 58 y) of the third foot, but €vpv Kpeiwv 'Aya/icfivwv, 'Aya/icfivovos 
'ArpciSdo, or 'Aya/icftvova TroL/Aem Xawv after the masculine caesura of the 
same foot. HrjXrjia^fa 'A^^^os is used after the penthemimeral caesura 
(§ 58 e), TToSa? w#cv5 'Ax^XXcvs after the hephthemimeral caesura (§ 58 g), 
but iroSdpKrjs 8105 *A;(tAAcvs, 7ro8a)KCos AiaKiSao or a^vfiovo^ AtaKtSao^ 
ToSapKei HrjXetwvt, Tro&oKca HrfXeCwva, a/iv/xova HrjXeiwva, or *AxtXX.rja, 
moXiiropBov, after the feminine caesura of the third foot, with SZbs 'A;(tA3 
Xcvs as a tag when the verse is filled up to the Bucolic diaeresis (§ 58 ^). 
Cf. the epithets of Apollo, kKarouo A 385 \j \j \j, iicrjPoXxnj A 14 ^ w 

cKocpyos A 479 ^ kj vy, €KaTrjP6\ov A 370 \j \j \j cxan^/ScXeroo 

A 75 w — ^ v^. See § 12 6. 

d. The dialect is essentially Ionic and seems to have originated among 
the lonians of Asia Minor, influenced possibly by the speech and cer. 
tainly far more by the old poems of their Aeolian neighbors. The oldest 
form of Greek Epic songs seems to have been Aeolic, but the lonians 
brought Epic poetry to perfection. Even the Pythian priestess delivered 
the oracles of Apollo in Epic verse and Ionic dialect, and the Dorian 
Spartans sang about their camp-fires the Ionian songs of Tyrtaeus. 

e. Some forms seem to be borrowed from other dialects ; but it must 
be remembered that when the poems were composed, there was less differ- 
ence between the dialects than at the earliest period when we have monu- 
mental evidence concerning them. 

f. Some anomalies of form (as of verse) are as yet unexplained, but 
it may be assumed that all which remain either (1) were justified by the 



§25. 



THE HOMERIC DIALECT. 



zxix 



usage of the people and might be explained by more complete knowledge 
of the history of the language, or (2) followed the analogy of what was 
in use, or (3) are errors which have found their way into the text during 
the course of transmission to the present time. As the poems were 
handed down among the Greeks at first orally, and afterwards still 
uncritically for centuries, errors unavoidably crept in and there was a 
gradual assimilation of what was obsolete to later and more familiar 
forms, when the older forms were unprotected by the metre. 

§ 23. Vowels and Vowel Changes, a. -q is regularly used for a, 
as dyopi^y ofioirjy except in Ota goddess, Xao? people, and some proper 
names (as Aivcias). Occasionally, as B 370, /iav is found instead of the 
less frequent ftiyv (the strong form of p.fv), SXto A 532 (from aXKopm) 
is another instance of a, unless it is to be written oXra (H. 30 D.) 

b. The final a of the stem is retained in the genitive endings -ao and 
-acDv of the 1st declension, as 'ArpctlSao A 203. 

c. ao is often changed to ca> by transfer of quantity: *A.rp€&ajo, 
*Ar/[>Ci8£(tf. Cf, PaxnX^ with Attic jSooxXcW* But the frequent Ado9 
never has the Attic form Xcq>9. 

d. Compensative lengthening is sometimes found where it is not in 
Attic, as $€ivo<s (fey/ro?), civcKa (Lesbian Imxa), Kovfyq (^Kopfd), pxnjvo^j 

e. Diphthongs occasionally preserve i where it is lost in Attic be- 
fore a vowel: cuct, alero^, ctcXcicto (§ 47 g), oivoPapcdaVf oXjot-q, irvoLrjy 

f . But I is lost before a vowel in (Sk&i ((okcoi) *lpis B 786, in -co for -oio as 
genitive-ending of the 2d declension (§ 35 6), and in c/xio for ifuio, etc. ; cf. 
Xpixraots A 246 with )(pv<r€<a A 15. As in Attic, the penult is sometimes 
short in vuk (as A 489, A 473). In these cases i has turned into the 
^sound. Likewise v is sometimes dropped between two vowels. See § 59 A; 8. 

§ 24. Contraction, Concurrent vowels generally remain uncontracted : 
icicQ>v, aXyeOf iroi? (in nominative and vocative singular), at? (o/ri? = ovis, 
ewe). Attic ev is regularly ho before two consonants, and the adjective 
is always cv? or ^ife. Patronymics from nouns in -cvs form -ctSi/s, -cW, 
as •Arpcf&75 A 7, HiyXcfwva A 197. (H. 37 D ; G. 846.) 

§ 25. Synizesis, a. Vowels which do not form a true diphthong may 
be blended in pronunciation into one long sound : *Ar/[>ci8ea> v-' v-' , 

tf€0€i8«i r 27, 8^ avT€ A 340, iroXtos B 811, *l<rriauiv B 537, in which last 

two examples i must have had very nearly the pronunciation of its cog- 
nate y-sound. The genitives in -ceo, -ewv are always pronounced with 
synizesis. (H. 42 D; G. 47.) 



XXX 



INTRODUCTION. 



f 25 b. 



b. Synizesis often served the purpose of the later contraction. -^fUm 
did not differ in metrical quantity from i^/muv. 

§ 26. Crasis is not frequent. Note rouycxa A 291, uwroi £ 396, 
X^/Acis B 238 (km i7ft€ts). (H. 76 ; G. 42 ft.) 

§ 27. Hiatus (H. 75 D; G. 34) is allowed. 

a. After the vowels i and v, as ^x^^ o^ocvrt E 50. 

b. When the two vowels between which it occurs are separated by a 
caesura (ko^Qoto hnyvdfuffam A 569) or by a diaeresis (§ 58 h) : seldom 
after the first foot (avrap o iyv<a A 333), more frequently after the fourth 
foot (^yxca o^vocvra E 568). Hiatus between the short syllables of the 
third foot is allowed nearly as frequently as in all other places together, 
more than 200 times. This freedom of hiatus emphasizes the prominence 
of this caesura, § 58 d, 

c. When the final vowel of the first word is long and stands in the 
accented part of the foot (§ 57 a), as o-c koxq (uotj A 418. See § 59 i& c. 

d. When a long vowel or diphthong loses part of its quantity before 
the following vowel (§ 59 it), as t^v S* cyw ov \v(r<a A 29, fwy vv rot ov 
Xpaiafiy A 28. Here the final and initial vowels may be said to be 
blended. This is called weak or improper hiatus; it is essentially the 
same as the following. 

e. When the last vowel of the first word is already elided, as fivpC 
'Axcuocs aXye i$rfK€v A 2. 

f. Hiatus before words which formerly began with a consonant (§ 32) 
is only apparent. 

g. The poet did not avoid two or more concurrent vowels in the same 
word, § 24. 

§ 28. Elision. (H. 79 ; G. 48.) a. a (in inflectional endings and in 
&pa aud pa), c, t, o may be elided, ai is sometimes elided in the verb 
endings, ot is elided seven times in /W, three times in roi, once in <rol 
A 170 (unless ou8c oxm otco or ov aoi 6m should be read there for oi)8c 
<T oifo). 

b. TO, irpd, avTL, irepC, ri, and the conjunction ort do not suifer elision ; 
is for ore (either the temporal conjunction or the relative o with rc 

affixed, § 42 m), t for ri or rot. 

c. i is seldom elided in the dative singular, where it seems originally 
to have been long. 

d. Oxytone prepositions and conjunctions lose their accent in elision ; 
other oxytones throw the acute accent upon the preceding syllable, as ra 
KOK [xcuca] A 107. Elision is not left to the reader as in Latin poetry. 

§ 29. Apocope. (H. 84 D; G. 53.) a. Before a consonant, the short 
final vowel of Sipa and of the prepositions db^ Kara, Trapa, may be cut off 



§30 j. 



THE HOMERIC DIALECT. 



xxxi 



(dTTOKom;, dTTOKoirrw) . The accent is then thrown back upon the pre- 
ceding syllable (although it might be more rational to consider it lost as 
it is in elision). 

b. After apocope, the v of dvd and r of Kara follow the usual rules for 
consonant changes : dfiweTraXiav T 355, KafiPaXtv E 343 (Karc)3aXev), Kah 
hi {Kara 8c) frequently, KoKrave Z 164 (icarcKravc), Kamrtacrqv E 560, 
Koppi^ovaa E 424. 

c. avepvaav A 459 is explained as derived by apocope, assimilation, 
and vocalization of p, from dm and /rcpvo). 

d. Apocope was no mere metrical license; it was common in the con- 
versational idiom of some dialects. More striking examples of apocope 
and assimilation than any in Homer are found in prose inscriptions. 

§ 30. Consonants and Consonant Changes, a. Where collateral 
forms appear, one with single and the other with doubled consonants, 
the form with two consonants is generally the older or justified etymo- 
log^cally, as woaa-Cf woa-C (from 7ro8-<rt) ; veiKecae, veiKece (vcikos, vctxco"-), 
oinrct)9 (oK/:(i)s, cf, Latin quis etc,)j orri, ktX. 

b. Single initial consonants, especially X, fi, v, p, o*, are often doubled 
(as /:> is in Attic) when by inflexion or composition a short vowel is 
brought before them (see § 59 A), as cAAtWcro Z 45. 

c. But sometimes p is not doubled where it would be in Attic, as 
(OKv/MMp E 598, KaT€p€$€v A 361. 

d. Palatal and lingual mutes often remain unchanged before /a, as 

thp£Vy K€KOpvOfl€VOq, 

e. Lingual mutes are commonly assimilated to a following a, as iroa-al 
(ttoS-o-i). <r is sometimes assimilated to p. or v: Ippjsvai (ttvai) for co-- 
pjevoLj dpy€w6^ white for d/)y€o--vos, as apyewdtuv T 198, hnnjpi for /rco*- 
vu/u (§ 32 a), iptfionr^ E 659 dark, cf, "lEpc^Sos. 

f . o" is frequently retained before c, as laaopai, ctcXco-cc. 

g. Between p and \or p, p is sometimes developed, as dpPpoT<K from 
stem pLpo or /uiop (Latin wiors, morior), while in Pporo^ mortal, the p of the 
stem is lost ; pippKtaKt from pXo or pxiK (cf. l/xoXov). 

h. Kdp,paX£ is found occasionally, in the Mss. as a variant reading, a 
softer pronunciation for Kafifiake (§ 29 6). 

i. A parasitic t appears in irroXis, -nToXc/ios for iroXis, ttoXc/aos. Cf. 
SixOd, rpixOd with Attic hixpiy rpCxO" The proper names Neoptolemus (Neo- 
irroXc/ios) and Ptolemy (JlToX.€pmos) preserved this t to a late period. 

j. The rough breathing (h) has no power to prevent elision or weaken 
hiatus. The smooth breathing is found with several words which have 
the rough breathing in Attic, as dppje (rjpas), vt^P (from 
mXXopm), i7e\co9 (^fXios), *At8i;s {"Ai&rjq), lycSs (ca>9). 



xxxii 



INTRODUCTION. 



§30k. 



k. The V movable was written by some ancient critics after the ending 
-€t of the pluperfect, as jScjSXiyKctv E 661, ijvcuyctv Z 170 ; cf. rjaKW T 388 
(170-Kccv). It is freely used before consonants to make a syllable long by 
position (§ 59/). 

1. The final o- of adverbs is omitted more often than in prose. Not 
merely i$ and ix, ovrctis and ouro), but also ttcSs and ircli, 7roAAaict9 and 
TroAXaici, Afi^k and afi<t>C (adverbial), are found as collateral forms. 

§ 31. Metathesis of a and p is frequent (H. 64 ; G. 64) : Kop^rj B 452, 
KfKL^rf a 353 ; Kofyrurroi. A 266, Kparo9 A 509. Cf. rpaweiofjuev T 441 from 
T€fyir<t), r€p?rtK€pavvo9 from rpejria. 

For the shifting of quantity from -ao to -co), see § 23 c. 

§ 32. The Digamma, (H. 72 D.) a. The following words seem to 
have been pronounced by the Homeric poet more or less consistently with 
initial digamma (vau, p, pronounced as English to) : — 

ayyvpjL break, 0X19 enough, aXxavax am captured, avai king, avhaym please, 
dfxuds thin, apvo^ lamb, axrrv city, I, oS, ol him, etc. with a possessive pro- 
noun OS, Tj, 6v (€05 ktX.), cap Spring, eOvoi tribe, ukogl twenty, aK<a yield, 
elpia say, (future cpccu), iKos far, Ikootos each, cicvpos father-in4aw, iK<ov 
willing, iXIa-Cia wind, iKiropm hope, hnropj, (/rcc-vu/u) clothe, €<r$i^, etfrnra 
clothes, cTTOs word, Ipyov, epSo) work, ipvw, draw, Itos year. If six, In/s comr 
panion, ^8vs sweet, (av&iv(i> please), ^^os haunt, lax^ cry aloud, iSctv see, (and 
oTSo, €?8o9), iKcXos, cotica a7n 19, i^c strength, sinew, To-os e^uaZ, trvs ^//yi 
oTkos oTvos trine. 

b. Probably lypa (iirl ^pa <^€p<i)v A 572), *I\tos, and Hpis, and several 
other words, also were pronounced with initial f. 

c. av&ii/a>, I, licvpos, % and others seem to have begun originally with 
two consonants, <rf. 

d. The verse alone affords no sufficient test for the former exist- 
ence of f in any word ; it only indicates the loss of some consonant. 
This is not conclusive evidence for p, since o- and j (y) were also lost. 
Which consonant originally was present has to be learned in each case 
from inscriptions of other Greek dialects, from a few notes of ancient 
grammarians, and from other cognate languages (cf Ipycv work, oTvos 
wine). 

e. The sound of p evidently was going out of use in the Homeric 
period. It is not infrequently neglected in our texts, and sometimes thi^ 
neglect seems to be due to the poet himself, but p can be restored in 
many passages by minor changes. For vi^v jeKyj^oXoy A 21 it is possible 
to read via ptK-rj^okov, for Travrco-o-i ^ avdxraav A 288 it is easy to read 
Trao-tv 8c pavdarmv, and x^/^^ peKTfPoXov for ^cpo-tv €KrjP6Xov A 14. Per- 
haps KTtivai fi€v p dXecivc Z 167 may have been ktciku fitv pe ktX. 



§34c. 



THE HOMERIC DIALECT. 



xxxiii 



f . That the sound of p was still alive in the Homeric age is shown by 
the accuracy of the poet in its use where comparative philology shows 
that it once existed. 

g. f sometimes leaves a trace of its existence in its cognate vowel v : 
avcpvcrav A 459 for oLfipvauv (§ 29 c), ToXavpivw E 289 for raXa-fpivov. 
So doubtless aTrovpas A 356 for airo-fpds, 

h. Some irregularities of quantity may be explained by this vocaliza- 
tion of f. Thus &tro€nr<ov T 35 may have been &irof€nr<av pronounced 
nearly as dTrovciTrcov. avuixpi finds its analogy in yeVero laxq A 456 
(yeverovuLXij)' 

L A neighboring vowel is sometimes lengthened to compensate for the 
loss of f (§ 59 c). 

j. An e was sometimes prefixed to a digammated word and remained 
after the f was lost, as ^eXScop, itucoa-i, ecpyci, cc. 

k. Sometimes the rough breathing represents the last remnant of a 
lost consonant (especially in the words which once began with (rp, as 
av8av(i> KTk.f cf. c above), as €Kiov, ccTTrcpos- Often the same root varies 
in breathing, as av&iv(i> and 178^9, but rjBfK, — evw/u, but €<rOip. 

1. For the augment and reduplication of digammated verbs, see § 43 (f. 

m. For 8^aSo>, S/ri/v, see § 59 h. 

§ 33. Declension. Special Case Endings. (H.217; G.292ff.) a. The 
suffix -^(v), a remnant of an old instrumental case, added to the stem 
forms a genitive and dative in both singular and plural. 

b. The suffix -Oi is added to the stem to denote place where. 

c. The suffix -Oev is added to the stem to denote j9/ace whence: l&rfiev 
from Ida, otvpavoOev from heaven. It forms a genitive with the pronomi- 
nal stems, as c^ev etveica F 128, irpo tOev E 96. 

d. The enclitic -Sc is added to the accusative to denote more distinctly 
the limit of motion : cmkov^ homeward (also diKaSe, especially of the 
return of the Achaeans to their homes) ovSe SofwvSe to his own house, 
aAa& seaward, KXurCqv&e to the tent. 

§ 34. First Declension. (H. 134 ff.; G. 168 ff.) a. 17 is found for 
final a of the stem with the exceptions mentioned in § 23. 

b. The nominative singular of some masculines ends in -ra for -n^ : 
fjLTjrCera counsellor. Cf. the Latin poeta, nauta. evpvoira far-sounding is 
used also as accusative, e.g. A 498. 

AU of these words are adjectival (titular) except ©vcWa B 107. 

c. The genitive singular of masculines ends in -do or (by transfer of 
quantity, § 23 c), -ceo. After a vowel this ending may be contracted to 
-«>, as Aiveto) E 534, Bopco) 4^ 692. The ending -ceo is always pronounced 
as one syllable by synizesis (§ 25). 



xxxiv 



INTRODUCTION. 



§34d. 



d. The genitiye plural ends in -aa>y or -coiv : BedjiaVf ^ovXcoiv. -coiv ia 
regularly pronounced as one syllable. 

e. The dative plural ends in -yaiCy) or rarely in -j;?. 

§ 35. Second Declension. (H. 151 ff. ; G. 189 ff.) a. The genitive 
singular has preserved the old ending -to, which affixed to the stem vowel 
makes -olo. 

b. The temiination -co is indicated by the metre in certain places 
where all the Mss. give a corrupt form, as o^treXcorov oo kXco^ ov ttot 
oXeirai B 325. It is to be recognized also in Ilcrcaio B 552 for Ilercaoo, 
from Ilcrcciis for Ilcrcoos. 

For the loss of t in the change from -ou> to oo, see § 23 /. 
The -oo was afterwards contracted to ov. 

c. The genitive and dative dual end in -ouv : touv, &fwuv. 

d. The dative plural ends in -ourt(v) or -ots. As in the first declen- 
sion, the long ending is the rule ; the short ending is very rare before a 
consonant. 

§ 36. Third Declension, (H. 163 ff . ; G. 205 ff.) a. The ending i of 
the dative singular is sometimes long, and sometimes short. It is seldom 
elided. It is often long before a ^gle consonant : Au fjo/riv droXavros, 
cf. vTTcp/Acvct <IhXjov B 116. 

b. The dative plural has the Aeolic ending •<a'<n(v) as well as the 
Attic -<n(y) : iroSco-o-i, troaa-i (§ 30 e), ttoo-i, — av^a-ai, dvSpacri, — Kwcccn, 
KV<rC. 

c. Nouns in and -V9 usually retain t or v throughout, but in its 
stead may insert e which is sometimes lengthened. 

d. Nouns in -cvs generally lengthen c to i; in compensation (§ 59 c) 
for the V which between two vowels becomes f and is lost, as jSoo-iAcv?, 

§ 37. Anomalow forms, a. As verbs appear in the present system 
with a variety of collateral forms derived from the same root (cf. wcoi, 
iKaviOy tKvcofuu, — wevOo fmif irwOdvofJuUf — fieviaj fUfivat, fitfivdCui), so nouns 
of different declensions are- sometimes formed from the same root and 
are used without appreciable difference of meaning. 

b. Some nouns have both vowel and consonant stems : oXki^ T 45, 
but aXw E 299 ; ip(rjpo<s craipo? A 266, but ipCrfpes craipoi T 378 ; cf 
TToXtifras B 806 with TroXirai. 

c. Of V109, three stems are found : (1) vlos, vlov, vU. The other forms 
of this declension are very rare. (2) vUos, vlct, vi&i as if from vlv^. 
(3) vUk, vii, via, as from a nominative vU* 

In this word the first syllable is sometimes short (§ 23/), as it often 
is in Attic and in other dialects. 



§39g. 



THE HOMERIC DIALECT. 



XXXV 



d. Certain names of cities are found in both singular and plural: 
MvK^ A" 52, MvK-qvas B 569 ; ®rjPry: A 378, (^fia^ E 804. Instead of 
the later plural ®€<T7ruu, TLXaTcuaCf Homer uses only the singular: 0e- 
<nr€uiv B 498, nXarotav B 504. 

§ 38. Adjectives, a. Somie adjectives of three terminations are 
used as if of two terminations, t.e. the masculine form is used also for 
the feminine : iipiOCfwv^ ilrvxds A 8, kXvtos *lmro8d/uui B 742, "^tpa wovXvv 
E 776, UvXxHo ^fmOoeyroi B 77. 

b. The feminine of adjectives in -vs, ends in -«a (gen. -ciiys), -ca 
(§ 23/), or -€17 : i3a^€"»» ^Sa^coys, — wxca, — jgo^o/s, PaOirfv. 

c. 7ro\v9 (irovkus) has in the masculine and neuter both stems ttoXv* 
(ttovXv-) and iroXXo- (for iroKvo-, § 37 a), with a nearly complete set of 
forms for each : ttoAAo? and woXXov, ttoXcos, ttoXcc?, ttqXccdv, ttoXcWo'i, ktX. 

§ 39. Patronymics. (H. 559 ; G. 846 f.) a. Suffixes which origin 
nally expressed connection or possession were used to form patronymic 
adjectives. The original force of these suffixes is occasionally preserved : 
(0€oi) Ovpaviiuves A 570 is a mere adjective of connection like (^cowriv) 
IjrovpaviouTi Z 129 ; Homer does not recognize Ovpavo^ as the ancestor of 
the gods. 'OXv/A7ria8c9 funnTcu B 491 is equivalent to fjunkrai 'OXvfiTria 
B(OfmT €\ovirai B 484. 

b. Patronymics are frequently used as proper names, cf, 'ArpaSi;? 
A 7, Mevoiria^; A 307, before the names Agamemnon-f Patroclus had been 
mentioned. 

A. c. The patronymic is formed from stems of the 1st declension by 
adding : kvyqua&io B 624, or more frequently by adding -co&i- : Aacp- 
Tto&ys r 200. 

d. This analogy, giving an ending in -ia&7s» is followed by stems in -to 
of the 2d declension : McvotrioSi/s. So also by stems of the 3d declension : 
HiyXiTuCSew A 1 (as well as HiyXcifSi/s S 316, HiyXctoiva A 197). See j below. 

e. The suffix -t&t- is added to stems in o, and the o is lost as in d 
above : ILpov&q^y — also to stems in cv, which lose their v between two 
vowels {cf, 23 /) : 'ArpeCSvfs A 7, — also to consonantal stems, as 'Aya- 
/ufivovCSrii a 30. ^AvOcfjuSvp A 488 is formed as from "AvOcfw^ rather 
than from 'Av^c/uW (*Av^€/uo)vos vioy A 473). 

f. Patronymics from stems in -cv, after the loss of the v, do not hi 
Homer suffer contraction of the c of the stem with the i of the suffix. 
The poet says 'ArpciSi/s, 'Arpcfoiv, as tetrasyllables not trisyllables. The 
verse ictus never falls on the ci. 

g. Female patronymics are formed by the suffix -t8- which loses 8 
before the nominative sign : XpvfrrfCSa (acc. of Xpv(rrf(s) A 182, BpurrfC8a 
A 184. 'AxouiSes B 235 corresponds to Kovpoi 'AxajiSiv A 473. 



xxxvi 



INTRODUCTION. 



§39h. 



B. h. Patronymics are formed also by the suffix -lov : Kpoi^iW A 528 
( with genitive Kpono>i/os or KptMovoi), ^Arpetuiv, n^XcicDv. In these last 
forms from nouns in -cvs the i is always short 

i. The corresponding female patronymic is found in ^Aifyqarivrf 
E412. 

j. TaXoLovCSao B 566 is irregular ; it seems to be formed by a cumula- 
tion of suffixes from TaAao9. So AaofjASovria&r/^ (AaofjASovrta&rf T 250) 
is formed from AaofieSovruys which itself appeal's as a patronymic (in the 
form AofLcSovrio?) in a Boeotian inscription. 

k. Some adjectives in -io« are used as patronymics, as TcAofuavio? Atas 
B 528. 

1. The patronymics in -81/9 are far more numerous than those in -uaif, 

m. The patronymic is sometimes derived from the grandfather's 
name: Achilles is called AIolkC^ B 860; Priam, ^ofAivC^ T 303; the 
two grandsons of Actor, *AKTOp{<ay€ B 621. Thus in later poetry, Heracles 
is called Alcides ('AXicaSi;?) from Amphitryo's father 'AAxaZbs or 'AXxev?. 

§ 40. Comparison of Adjectives, a. Comparatives and superla- 
tives end in -twv, -ottos more frequently than in Attic. (H. 253 ; G. 72.) 

b. dya^os has comparatives dpctW (cf, apurros), PtKrepov, KptCfranWy 
X<otov, <l>€pT€pOi. 

§ 41. Numerals. (H. 288; G. 372 f.) a. m has a collateral form US 
Z 422 ; cf. the feminine form la A 437. 

b. Suo), Svo is indeclinable. It has the collateral forms SouS^ Socot, ktX. 

§ 42. Pronouns. (H. 261 ff.; G.389 ff.) a. The oblique cases of 
the 3d personal pronoun when enclitic are * anaphoric,' like avrdv ktX. in 
Attic ; when accented they have their original reflexive use, like Attic 
cavrou, Ipavrav, aeavrovy ktX., which compounds are post-Homeric. 

b. fuv, a'<lHi)€, o-^ohV, a'<l>Lf 0*^9, and o-^c are always enclitic. 

c. For the relation of the form i/uio to ifiio, of atio to o-co, ktX., see 
§23/ 

d. avros regularly retains its intensive force in the oblique cases, even 
when not connected with a noun expressed, often marking a contrast 
nvhich it is difficult to render smoothly in the English idiom. Cf. 

§iiy>. 

The presumption is always strongly in favor of the original meaning ; 
but all shades of meaning are found from the strict intensive to the 
simple anaphoric use of the Attic dialect. 

e. For avrm in the sense of wa-avrm, see g below. In this use it has a 
large variety of meanings, as (a<^pom t ) avT<os T 220 a mere (simpleton) ; 
without cause A 520, toithout a prize A 133, absolutely B 138, vainly B 342, 
without chariot E 255. Most of these meanings are derived from in the 



§43c. 



THE HOMERIC DIALECT. 



zxxvii 



same way as before, the connectioa determining the special sense of each 
passage. 

f . The Attic article 6, ^, ro, generally retains its demonstrative force 
in Homer, but like the intensive pronoun in the oblique cases, appears 
occasionally in its Attic signification. 

In their demonstrative use, 6, ^, ol, at, are best written o, 17, oc^ at. — 
Toti Tolf Tws are used besides otj at, 

g. Thus the absence of the article does not mark a noun as indefinite; 
cf. iirjiwu aci& O^a A 1 with arm a virumque cano. Frequently 
avra>9 is equivalent to Attic wra-vrta^ (ci>9 being the adverb of the article, 
see / above and § 56 c) while S* avrcos T 339 is equivalent to Attic 
ouro) S* axravTQis. 

h. The demonstrative article is often followed by a noun in apposi- 
tion with it, as oi ^ ixdfnjfmv 'A^cuoi tc Tpwes t€ T 111, btU these rejoiced, 
both Achaeans and Trojans, avrap 6 Povv Upevaev ava( avSpSw ^AytLfjuifivwy 
B 402 but he, Agamemnon, king of men, sacrificed an ox, 

i. The forms with initial t often have a relative force, but refer only 
to a definite antecedent. This is a relic of paratactic construction (§ 21), 
as is particularly clear in dAAa ra /icv ttoXiW i^etrpajSofJiev ra heSeurrai 
A 125 but what we took as spoils from the cities, these have been divided, 

j. K€ii/os is often found for €KCivo9. 

k. Besides the Attic forms of the relative, o is used for 09, oov (better 
So, § 35 5) for o5. 

1. The forms 09 and 8 have also a demonstrative use, especially 09 
with ovSc, fii^Sc, KOI, and yap. 

For the relative use of the article, see i above. 

m. The neuter o is frequently used as a conjunction, like quod. So 
also ori and o re. 

n. The indefinite and interrogative pronouns have genitive singular 

TCO, TCl5. 

o. In o Tis for Ss ns (cf, 6 for os, k above), the first stem often remains 
nninfiected. 

§ 43. CoNJUGATiox. Augment and Reduplication. (H. 354 ff. ; 
G. 610 ff.) a. The augment was for a time considered unessential : 
whether temporal or syllabic, it may be omitted in the Homeric poems ; 
the accent is then thrown back as far as possible, as rcv^e A 4, oAcKovro 
A 10, d<^'ei A 25. 

b. When the augment is omitted, monosyllabic forms with long 
vowel take the circumflex accent, as Prj for IjSi;. 

c. Sometimes initial p is not doubled after the augment, as Ipc^c 
B 400 ; sometimes initial X, fi, or o- is doubled after the augment 



xxxviii 



INTRODUCTION. 



§4.3d. 



d. Stems which originally began with a consonant may take the 
syllabic augment or reduplication, as Icittov, ci/kc, — cotxa, lopya. 

e. The second aorist active and middle, of verbs whose stem begins 
with a consonant, is often found with a reduplicated stem, as CKcicXero, 
dfi7rc7raA.a>v, €T€TfJue, rervKOvro. 

f. The so-called Attic reduplication is more common in Homer than in 
Attic, and its use extends to the second aorist where the augment also 
may be used (c/. Attic ijyayw), as ^papc, and the peculiar form -^vCmnrt 
B 245 from iviTma in which the final consonant of the theme is redupli- 
cated with a as a connective. 

g. SciSoiKa and SctiSca have irregular reduplication ; probably these are 
to be explained as for ScS/rotKa, ScS^ta. 

h. i/AfjLopa (from /jueCpofJuu) and ia-avfuu (from o-cvco) double the initial 
consonant and prefix c as if they began with two consonants. 

§ 44. Endings, (H. 375 ff . ; G. 551 ff., 777 ff.) a. The singular endings, 
-fu, -ar^a, -aiy occur more frequently than in Attic ; especially -/u and -cri 
in the subjunctive, as ISotfU, dydy<afu, iOikya-ty PaXya-i. These endings 
are rare in the subjunctive of the contracted fu-forms, as &Scri A 129. 

b. In the pluperfect, the older endings -ca ktX. are preserved. The 
third person singular ends in -c€(v) or -ctv, as Pefii^Keiv A 221, B 409. 

c. The second and third persons singular of the first aorist optative ac- 
tive end in -cias, -€tc( v), as /ytetVcui?, KoXia-etey. The second person in -ais oc- 
curs very rarely. The third person in -at is more common, as yrjOi^irajL A 256. 
The third person plural ends in -cwti/, as riaeuiv A 42, dKoixrciav B 282. 

d. The third person plural optative active of fu-verbs ends in -tcv, as 
cfcv, Saftctev, Sotev. 

e. The third person plural imperative ends in -rwv, -aOwv (never 
-Twrav, -trdwrav). 

f. a. Active infinitives (except in the first aorist) frequently end in 
-/Acmi, which is sometimes shortened after a short vowel to -/xcv, as 
cfifici/ai, c/i/uteV) cX^€/t€v(<")> Te$vdfJU£v((a). 

p. The shortening of -/icm to -/icv occurs generally before a vowel, 
where it may be called elision. 

y. The ending -vai is found only after a long vowel, as Sovvae. 

g. Aorist passive infinitives end in -fuvoL or -vai. 

h. The second person singular of the middle generally remains uncon- 
tracted (§ 24), as oSvpau, i&rjai T 130, ^SoAXco A 297. Contracted forms 
are used occasionally, as ficTaTpeirri A 160, yvtaay B 365, k€k\i^ T 138. 

i. In the perfect middle, -ooi regularly loses its c. 

j. -ao retains its a only in the imperative, as ^o-<ro, torao-o. 
k. The first person plural middle often ends in -/ico^ 



§47 e. 



THE HOMERIC DIALECT. 



xxxix 



1. The third person plural of the perfect and pluperfect indicative mid- 
dle often, and of the optative middle always, ends in -aroi, -aro for -vrax, 
-vro. Before these endings smooth labial and palatal mutes are aspirated, 
as CTTirerpa^Toi (perfect passive of CTrtrpciro)) . 

m. The third person plural indicative of the aorist passive generally 
ends in -cv instead of -rj(Tav, as rjyepOev A 57, ifxiavOcv A 200, rpd^^ A 251 
8i€Tfmy€v A 531. Cf, the active €-Xv-<ra-v, €-Xvo-v. 

n. SimUarly, v is used for the later -<rav in the imperfect and second 
aorist of ftt-verbs, as $vyuv A 273, ia-rav, arav, IjSav. 

o. For the optative ending of fit-verbs, in -tcv not htjouv, see d above. 

§ 45. Subjunctive Mode. a. The variable vowel (* connecting vowel*) 
of the subjunctive is generally short in the first aorist, second aorist of 
/bi^forms, second aorist passive, second perfect of primitive formation, as 
Prjarofiev, dyupofjuev, to/xcv, ^cto/xcv, rpaweiofuv, Sa/icicrc, ctSo/icv, ireiroiOofJLev. 
(H. 373D; G. 780.) 

This short vowel is found before the endings -fjtev, -rov, -re, and in 
middle forms. 

b. A few forms of the first aorist have a long vowel following the 
analogy of the present, as Snj^rfoyirai T 107. - 

c. There are no certain examples of the short mode-vowel in the 
present of verbs in -<d. (For jSovXcrai dvrcouras A 67, PavKrfr avricura? 
may be substituted, etc) 

K.B. The forms of the first aorist subjunctive are easily confused with 
those of the future, with which they are identical in appearance. 

§ 46. Optative Mode, For the optative endings, see 44 c, d, 
§ 47. Contract Verbs. (H. 409 D ; G. 784 ff.) a. Verbs in -ao) exhibit 
unchanged, assimilated, and contracted forms ; the poet's choice between 
contracted and uncontracted forms seems to have been determined largely 
by the rhythm. The vowels are regularly contracted when the second is 
in a short syllable. 

b. Uncontracted forms without assimilation occur rarely, as ircivacov 
r 25. (ovra, A 525 and often, is a second aorist, see § 53.) 

c. The rowels of the uncontracted forms are generally assimilated, a 
prevailing over a following € or ij but being assimilated to o, oi, or ov. 
These forms are intermediate between the original and the contracted 
stage. 

d. One of the vowels is usually lengthened in the text of the Mss. 
Sometimes this appears to be a conformation to Attic usage (§ 22/). 

e. Verbs in -cai generally remain uncontracted; except cc, which is 
generally contracted in the Mss., but often the uncontracted forms are 



xl 



INTRODUCTION. 



§471 



metrically possible, co is very rarely contracted except in the participle 
ending -cv/xcvo? (where contraction occurs to prevent a too frequent 
recurrence of short syllables, § 59 e). co) is never contracted but is often 
pronounced as one syllable by synizesis (§ 25). 

f. Sometimes the variable vowel c is contracted with c of the stem 
instead of with the termination. One of these vowels is sometimes 
dropped^ as dirocupco A 275. 

g. The older form of these verbs, in -cko, is sometimes preserved, as 
crcXctero A 5, veucctiyo-i A 579. See § 23 e. 

h. ffiop€(o forms ^pcciv A 144, ^op^m B 107. 

i. Verbs in -oa> are generally contracted. Sometimes they have forms 
with the double o sound, like verbs in -oo), as iarpaTotavro T 187 (which 
might be written carparooyro) . 

§48. Tenses. Future and First Aoristy Active and Middle. (H.420ff.; 
G. 777.) a. Pure verbs which do not lengthen the stem-vowel in the 
formation of the tenses, often have double a in the future and first aorist, 
active and middle. 

b. In the future the <r of the before-mentioned verbs often disappears, 
as KoXiovaa T 383, ^Xctrcu B 325. 

c. Stems in S often show double a in the aorist. 

d. Most of these forms with aa may be explained as original or assim- 
ilated, as vciKco-o-c from the theme vcucco- (c/. veiKos), KOfAioxraro for K0fu8- 
aaro (cf. ko/u8i;). Thus the stem-vowel of these verbs was not final 
originally, and hence is not lengthened in the future and aorist. 

e. Some stems in X and p retain the cr of the future and aorist 
(as some do in Attic), as HXxrajL A 409, Kvpcras T 23, wpce A 10. 

f. The so-called Doric future with tense-sign o-c, is foimd in iaadrtu 
B393. 

g. Some verbs have a future without tense-sign, as cTfu, KoxKeiovrei to 
lie down, cSo/xot, irCofjuUf ipvta. Most of these verbs are old presents which 
acquired a future signification, elpj, is not always future in Homer, c/*. B. 87. 

h. Some verbs form the first aorist active and middle without a, as 
Ix^cv Z 419 (from ^^r ^x^)' €<''0'€va E 208, iicrfa A 40 from Ktu<a. 

i. The first aorist often has the variable vowel of the second aorist <>/c, 
as Ifov, SwcTo. So in the imperative, as jSi/crco E 109, Jpaco F 250, afcrc 
r 105, oio-crc r 103; infinitive, outc/acvoi F 120; participle, imPrjaoiiaw 
E46. 

j. Verbs in -{w often have themes in y, and thus futures and first 
aorists in -(ta and -(a, as cjoAaTro^at A 129, irrokepu^ofjuev B 328. 

§ 49. Perfect. (H. 446 ff., 490 ; G. 682 ff.) a. The soKsalled first per- 
feet in -Ka is formed only from 20 vowel-stems. It is almost as rare as 



§62. THE HOMERIC DIALECT. xli 

the first aorist in -#ca (ISwica, hfKo, lOriKo). Forms without k are derived 
even from vowel-stems, especially participial forms, as KiKfii^Ka^ Z 262, 
but K€KfnfiTi Z 261. 

b. The final mute of the stem is not aspirated. 

c. The endings are affixed immediately to the reduplicated verb-stem 
in PePatun, yeyacuras, Scffit^t, iUrrp^, l^fxev, KtKfirfia^, c?rc7ri^ficv, rirXxtBi, 

d. eppCyyai T 353 and 6\<o\rf A 164 have the force of prei^ent subjunc- 
tives. 

e. dKaxifi^vo^ and iaavfjuevos are accented irregularly as presents. 

f. The second perfect often has a long vowel in the stem where the 
second aorist has a short vowel, as opwpcv B 797, wpope B 14G. 

g. In the feminine participle the short form of the stem appears, as 
afnfpilkf but dpapvia ; hence iucvla. not elicvia T 386 etc, 

§ 50. Voices. Middle, a. The active and middle forms opav (about 
40 times) and bpaxrOai (about 20 times), tSctv (more than 200 times) and 
i^irOax (90 times), are used often without appreciable difference of mean- 
ing. C/. l<#ttTc B 807, A 584. 

b. The first aorist middle is sometimes used without difference of 
meaning from the second aorist active, as jSi/crcTo, V 262, l^i; A 311 ; cSv- 
0-6TO r 328, 18v r 36. 

c. The future middle is sometimes used as passive, as rcXcco^ B 36. 
C/. 51 e. 

d. The aorist middle is often used as passive. Cf, xfiXiMrapLevri T 413 
with xoA.a)0Ci$ A 98, xopiy T 76 with Ktxapotaro A 256, Ay€poinro B 94 with 
^ycp^cv A 57, &fi<l>ixyro B 41, KTa/icvoio T 375. Cf. cXcXtxft7<rav E 497 
they rallied, OQtprjxOrjvat A 226 arm himself. 

The passive formation in Greek is comparatively late. 

§ 51. Passive, a. For the ending of the aorist passive infinitive, see § 44 ^. 

b. For the ending of the third person plural indicative, see § 44 w. 

c. The second aorist subjunctive passive usually remains uncontracted, 
and follows the rule of /u-verbs (§ 52 c). 

d. In the second aorist subjunctive, the passive suffix is often long 
(and the mode 70wel short in the dual and in the first or second person 
plural, § 45 a), as &if»7i79 T 436 {SdfivYffu), rpaweCofiev T 441 (t^o>, § 31), 
but pxyiwTiv B 475 (fuay<o), 

e. Homer has only two futures from passive stems. 

f. Some verbs have both first and second aorists passive, as ipXx^ ^ 
134, ifUyrjv r 445. 

§ 52. Verbs in -MI. (H. 476 ff. ; G. 787 ff.) a. Some verbs in -fu 
have forms in the present and imperfect indicative which follow the 
analogy of contract verbs : riOei, &8oi, Si&nxn, Uun- 



xlii 



INTRODUCTION. 



§62b. 



b. For the ending -v for -<rav, see § 44 n. 

o. The second aorist subjunctive active generally remains nncon- 
tracted. The stem vowel often appeai-s in its long form with short 
mode vowel in the dual and in the first and second persons plural (c/. 
§§ 45 a, 51 d), as ^<nv A 324, ^cio/icv A 143 (better Orjofjuev, Attic ^ficv), 
yviown A 302, iptiofjusv A 62 (better iprjofjueif, as from an iprffu), 

§ 53. Second Aorists without Variable Vowel. (H. 489; G. 125, 3.) 
Many second aorists, active and middle, are found without variable 
vowel, following the analogy of verbs in -/u, as SXro A 532 (oAAofuu), 
lyvo) A 199, Ukto B 420 (S€xofJim), p\^o A 518 (^c£Ua)), k\v$i A 37, 
kXvt€ B 56 (icXvw), ovra Z 64, €<r(rvTO B 809 (<r€va>). 

§ 54. Iterative Forms, (H. 493; G. 778.) a. Iterative forms of 
the imperfect and aorist indicate the repetition of a state or action. The 
augment is generally omitted. These forms are characterized by the 
suffix -o-K, and have the inflection of the imperfect of verbs in -o>. They 
are confined to the Ionic dialect. The iterative idea is frequently waning 
and occasionally is lost. 

b. Verbs in -co add the endings -o-kov or -a-KOfiriu to the c-form of the 
stem of the present or second aorist, as co-kc, cittco-kc, iScotkc. 

§ 55. Prepositions, a. Prepositions often retain their original adver- 
bial force (as iv 3c but therein, irapa 8c and beside him) . They may be 
placed after the verbs or nouns with which they are connected. See 
§19 6. (H. 785; G. 1222ff.) 

b. The preposition is often separated from the verb which it modifies, 
as Trap 8c Kc<^aAAi7vo)v oft^l ortxcs ovk aXairahval \ earaxrav A 330 f., 
where vdp modifies corcurav. 

o. Anastrophe, (H. 109; G. 116.) a. Disyllabic prepositions, when 
they immediately follow the word with which they are construed, take 
the accent upon the penult, except d/x^i, dvri, dm, 8(d. ova Z 331 stands 
for dvafTTYfOi. Ivt is used for Ifvcuri or Ivcori, lirt for Ittcoti, /lera for 

flCTCOTt. 

p. Elided prepositions suffer anastrophe only when they as adverbs 
modify a verb to be supplied, as or* T 45 for hrtfm, — or by way of 
exception, in order to avoid ambiguity, as c^* A 350, to show that the 
preposition is to be connected with the preceding word. 

d. a. cv has the parallel forms ctv, cn. ctv stands only in the part of 
the foot which receives the ictus, and its use is nearly confined to certain 
phrases, as civ dyofyg, ctv *Ai8ao Sofjuouriv. 

p. The poet uses both h and ci9, Trpos, irporl, and ttot^ viro and 

VJTOJL. 

f . d/A^t, dvd, and fierd are used also with the dative. 



§67 d. 



HOMERIC VERSE. 



zliii 



§ 56. Adverbs. (H.257ff.; G.365ff.) a. A predicate adjective is 
often used where the English idiom has an adverb or an adverbial 
phrase, as x^^o^ '^Pv ^ yesterday, rjepttf A 497 early in the 

morning, iram^fiepioi. A 472 cdl day long, irprpnj^ E 58 (pronus) on his 
face, 

irpo^^pm willing is used only predicatively, where the English idiom 
uses willingly. 

b. Adverbs ending in -a are common : o-a^ rax^ cSko. These seem 
to have been originally neuter cognate accusatives, and many are such 
still ; cf, TToAA' circrcAAc, iroXXa rjparo, fieya vj/ttic, fuyaX evx^ro, ktX. 

o. Adverbs in -m are not common; they are most frequent from 
o-stems: ovrois (ouro9)» (Ss (o), avrois (avrds), kokqis (kokos). lo-cus and 
6fu>io>9 are not found, KoXm only p 63, ^iXcus only A 347. 

§57. HOMERIC VERSE. The Heroic Hexameter, (H. 1064 ff., 1100 ; 
G. 1668 f.) a. The poems are to be read with careful attention to the 
metrical quantity of each syllable, as well as to the sense of the passage. 
There are six feet (bars or measures) in each verse; hence the name 
hexameter. Emphasis or stress of voice is laid on the first syllable of 
each foot. The part of the foot which has no ictus (the arsis) should 
receive as much time though not so much stress as the ictus-syllable 
(the thesis). The rhythm would be called } time in modern music. The 
English hexameter (found e.g, in Longfellow's Evangeline) is generally 
read as of | time. 

b. The written word-accent is to be disregarded in reading Homeric 
verse. Occasionally the verse-ictus and word-accent may coincide, but the 
word-accent seems to have had no influence on the formation of the verse. 

o. The dactyl (J ^^or_ww), with the ictus on the first sylla- 
ble, is the fundamental and prevailing foot of Homeric verse. It is often 
replaced by a spondee^ or heavy dactyl (J J or ). 

Dactyls are about three times as frequent as spondees in the Homeric 
poems. 

d. Verses in which each of the first five feet is a dactyl are far more 
common in Homer than in Vergil : there are 160 in the first book of the 
Iliad alone. Many frequently recurring verses have this rhythm ; as rov 
^ a/nufuipofuvoi vpoo'iKlyrf iro&as cofcv? *A)(iXX€ik, — avrap ciret iroaio^ Kal 
iSvjTvoq ii Ipov crro. Many other verses have but one spondee (generally 
in the first foot) among the first five feet ; as ^/xos 8* 171X10$ icarcSv Kxa ciri 

^ This name was derived from the use of this slow, solemn measure in the 
hymns which accompanied the libation (jintovl4i) to the gods. 



xliv 



INTRODUCTION. 



§67 e. 



e. Spondees are most common in the first two feet ; they are more 
and more avoided in each foot toward the close of the verse. 

f. The first foot allows more freedom than any other. A short vowel 
there more frequently retains its natural quantity before a mute and a 
liquid, and yet la more frequently lengthened in the unaccented part of 
the foot before that combination. At the close of the first foot, hiatus is 
allowed (§ 27 6). 

g. The Bucolic diaeresis (§ 58 h) is seldom immediately preceded by a 
word of three long syllables. Before this diaeresis, a dactyl is strongly 
preferred. 

h. Verses which have a spondee in the fifth foot are called spondaic 
verses (cm; airaySeuucd) . They are more common in Homer than in the 
Latin poets, — about iper cent of the verses of the Iliad being spondaic. 

i. These spondaic verses seem especially frequent at the close of 
emphatic sentences or of divisions of the narrative (cf, A 21, 157, 291, 
600) and in descriptions of suffering and toil, but often no rhythmic 
effect is sought ; the convenience of the verse determined the measure. 

j. The last foot in each verse is a spondee, but the final syllable may 
be short; the deficiency in time is then made up by the slight pause 
which follows at the end of the verse (§ 59 a, /). A heavy or consonan- 
tal ending is preferred ; hence the v-movable is often used. 

k. The student need not concern himself about elision as in Latin 
poetry ; that is already done in the text ; but he must be watchful for 
synizesis (§ 25). 

§ 58. Caesural Pauses. (H. 1081; G. 1642.) a. Each verse has one 
or more caesural pauses (caesura = to/lliJ cutting)^ — pauses within a foot. 

b. The principal caesura of the verse is always a pause in the sense, 
and is often emphasized by punctuation, but occasionally commas are 
found where no pause is necessary. 

Of course no pause can be made immediately before an enclitic, since 
this is closely connected with the foregoing word. 

o. A caesura is almost always found in the third foot ; only 185 verses 
of the Iliad and 71 of the Odyssey have no pause there. It occurs either 
after the ictusnsyllable (as fjojviv aciSc Ota A niyXi/ta&o) 'A;(iX^o5 A 1 

v/vl — A — I — — vv/l l)>or between the 

two short syllables (as av8pa fwi cwcttc Movora A iroAvrpoirov os fm\a 

iroXXa al, \ w l_-*^A*^|_-vvy| — v/wl !)• These 

two caesuras are about equally frequent; but the second slightly pre- 
dominates and seems to have been preferred. 

d. The importance of the caesura in the third foot is marked not 
only by the freedom with which hiatus is allowed there (§ 27 b), and by 



§58k. 



HOMERIC VERSE. 



xlv 



the evident avoidance of elision at that point, but also by the large 
number of tags of verses which are suited to follow it ; as irarrjp avSpStv 
T€ OeStv TC, PoSnri^ irorvta "^pvf, $€a XcvkcoAcws "H/m;, ^ca yAavKowrt? 
'Aftyny, <l>i\ofifij€i8rf^ 'A^po&Ti;, Ato9 Ovydrrjp 'A^po&riy, evicn^/titScs 'A^auK, 
*A)(ajMv )(aXKO)(iriavii}v, Koprq KO/xoovrcs 'Ayajuoi^ apiffL<l>iXoi McveAoos, dva^ 
OLvSplav *Ayafi€/Ltvo)v, P<njv dyajSb^ /Siio/irjSvj^, TtpijvuK Unrora Ncorcop ktX. 
— all of which must be preceded by the feminine caesura (see /) of the 
third foot; while 'Aya/jic/tivoi/os ^ArpeiBou}, evpv Kputov 'Aya/Ltc/tivcDv, ijyij- 
Top€9 ftcSoKTCs, aTraftci^CTo ^vivtj(T€v TC ktX. must be preceded by the 
masculine caesura of the third foot. See § 22 c. 

e. The pause after the first syllable of the third foot is called the 
penthemimeral caesura (ircvrc, ijfu-, ficpos) because it comes after the fifth 
half -foot ; it divides the verse into 2 J + 3 J feet. The pause between the 
two short syllables of the third foot divides the verse into 2| + 3} feet. 

f. The pause after an ictus-syllable is called a masculine caesura 
because of the vigorous movement which it gives to the verse. The 
pause between two unaccented syllables is called a feminine caesura. 

g. Sometimes the principal pause of the verse is the masculine caesura 
of the fourth foot. This is called the hephthemimeral caesura (eirra, tipx-, 
fUpoi), It is frequent after a feminine caesura of the third foot. It 
gives an energetic movement after a penthemimeral caesura, when the 
verse is divided into 2i + 1 + 2} feet. 

h. Sometimes the pause of the verse is at the close of the fourth foot ; 
this is called the Bucolic diaeresis (a diaeresis being a pause at the end 
of a word between two feet) or caesura, since it is most evidently aimed 
at in the bucolic or pastoral poetry of Theocritus. Occasionally there is 
a transition at this point to another part of the story, as A 318, 348, 430. 
This Bucolic diaeresis with the penthemimeral caesura divides the verse 
into 2i + l} + 2feet. 

i. The importance of the Bucolic diaeresis is marked by the large 
number of tags of verses which are ready to follow it, as Stb? '08v<r<rcv5, 
IpKOi 'A)(ajuov, imrora Ncorw/a, o^pifios "Aprf^y ^xuSifjm ^EKTtap, $01^09 
'AirdAAcDv, IlaAAas 'AOT^vrf, ^ Ocdiav, firfrUra Zcv9» uroBw ^ciis. See 
§ 22 c. Hiatus is allowed here occasionally. See § 27 h, 

j. A slight pause occurs about as often, after the first short syllable 
of the fifth foot. The poet prefers to close the verse with the rhythm 

\jy \j (where the comma represents the end of a word) rather 

than ; hence ovrc reA.eo-(ras A 108, not aSr' cTcXcororas, and 

dXy€ tOrjKev A 2, not oXyea $rjK€v. 

k. The principal pause of the verse is seldom found at the close of 
the third foot. This would divide the verse into two equal parts and 



xlyi 



INTRODUCTION. 



§581. 



cause monotony. A word ends there not infrequently, but is accom- 
panied by a more prominent caesura in the third or fourth foot ; as evBa 
i3oK irXciOTouf ^pvyaq avcpas T 185, where the last two words are so 
closely connected that no caesura is felt between them. 

L Even a slight pause is rare between the two short syllables of the 
fourth foot. In jcot iirttBero /ivO^ A 33, the objectionable pause might 
be avoided by omitting the augment, but the conjunction is connected 
with the verb so closely that no caesm*a is felt. 

m. No sentence ends with the second foot. 

n. The pause in the third foot gives to the rest of the verse an 
anapaestic movement, from which it is often recalled by the Bucolic 
diaeresis. 

o. The varied position of the main caesura, and the minor pauses in 
different parts of the verse, give perfect freedom from monotony without 
detracting from the grace and dignity of the measure. 

§ 59. QuANTiTY.i (H. 92 ff. ; G. 98 ff., 1622.) a. Metrical con- 
venience or necessity often determined the poet's choice among synony- 
mous words (§ 22 a-c). The poet in general preferred the light dactyls 
to the heavy dactyls or spondees, and retained in the £pic dialect a large 
number of dactylic forms which were aftei*wards contracted. An amphi- 

macer (_ v/ , d/x^i, fuucpov) was avoided often by means of apocope, 

synizesis, or elision. 

Most exceptions to the rules of quantity are only apparent. The poet, 
for example, did not lengthen a short syllable by placing the ictus upon 
it. If an apparently short final syllable stands where a long syllable is 
expected, it is probable either 

(1) that the final syllable was originally long, and later lost part of its 
quantity; or 

^ The beginner will find it convenient to remember concerning a, i, u, the 
vowels whose quantity is not clear at the first glance, that 

(1) they are short in the final syllable of any word when the antepenult 
has the acute or if the penult has the circumflex accent ; 

(2) they are regularly short in infiectional endings, as ixdxv^^* ^ptaa^ rpfwown, 
rdBtmiKa, — in the final syllables of neuter nouns, as 8£/«a, ^fiap, fi€\i, ddnpv, — 
in suffixes, except where v has been lost before o-, as (f>^aU, 8oMi}s, ^olyiaaa, — 
in particles, especially in prepositions, as iiyd, irepi, ^6, apa, in, — and gener- 
ally in the second aorist stem of verbs ; 

(3) they are long in the final syllable when the penult is long by nature 
and has the acute accent ; 

(4) they are long when they are the result of contraction, as irlfM from 
irifjuLt, ip6v, from Up6v, and as the final vowel of the stem of nouns of the first 
declension. 



§59e. 



HOMERIC VERSE. 



xlvii 



(2) that the following word has lost an initial consonant which would 
have made the preceding syllable long by position (see j below) ; or 

(3) that the pause (musical rest) of a caesura or diaeresis, fills out the 
time occupied by the foot, allowing the same freedom as at the end of 
the verse (§ 57 j), 

b. A considerable number of anomalies, however, remain unexplained. 
Prominent among the unexplained anomalies of quantity is the I of 
certain abstract nouns, which form such a definite class that it may be 
assumed that there was some explanation, perhaps physiological, for 
them all. 

c. Many apparently irregular variations of natural quantity, as well as 
apparent freedom in allowing hiatus, and variations of quantity made by 
position (see j below), are to be explained by the loss of a consonant, 
e.g. - AiSos T 322 but «At8t A 3, from a-fiS (§ 32), fji€fjLa<rav B 863 but 
fUfidorts B 818 (ftc/ia/rore?)* 

d. a. A syllable which contains a long vowel or a diphthong is long 
by nature. Final cu and oi are metrically long, although short as regards 
accentuation. 

p. The quantity of some vowels is not fixed, as ^AttoWqivo? A 14, 
AAiroXXcDv, A 380 ; 'Ape?, "Api^ E 31 (if the text is right). 

y. Most of these vowels with variable quantity were originally long 
and were becoming short, as the Homeric lo-os, icaXos, and ^apos, became 
loros, icaXo9> and <f>dpoi in Attic poetry, fuapivo (cf, ^pvj euxpivif B 471), 
Attic iapivosi is found on a Boeotian inscription. Evidently every vowel 
which at first was long and afterwards became short must have had at 
some time a metrical quantity which could be treated either as long or 
short, ue. its quantity was variable. 

8. For the length of final i in the dative singular of the third declen- 
sion, see § 36 a. wpCv in vpiv avr Z 81 retains its original length, as a 
contracted comparative. 

€. With this variation of natural quantity may be compared the 
double forms employed in Homer, — one with a single consonant, another 
with two consonants, as 'Ax^AXcvs A 54, ' AxtXev's A 199 ; 'OSvoro-cvs A 430, 
'OSwcvs A 494 ; TpiKKrfv B 729, TpU-qs A 202 ; ottttcus A 344, &jrm A 136; 
pjsxraoif r 266, /ico-ov A 481, KT^, many of which doubled consonants are 
known to be justified etyraologically. 

e. Sometimes a naturally short vowel was lengthened (not by the 
poet, but in the speech of the people) in order to avoid the too frequent 
recurrence of short syllables. This is illustrated by the rule for the use 
of o or 0) in the comparison of adjectives ((ro^a>repo9 but Kov<^or€pos), 
and by the words which have a vowel similarly lengthened in the Attic * 



xlviii 



INTRODUCTION. 



S59£ 



dialect (as iOavaroi, trfKunf^fopo^^ \nrrfpmj9)» We find Sin^p but av^?, 
UpXafws but JlpiofuSvii, $vyarrfp but Ovydrepau 

f. a. In Homeric verse a syllable which contains a short vowel is long 
by position when the vowel is followed by a double consonant ^, if/) or 
by two or more consonants, whether these are in the same or in the fol- 
lowing word or are divided between the two words. 

p. This rule holds good also in case of a mute followed by a liquid. 
This combination rarely fails to make position within a word, and gen- 
erally makes position when it stands at the beginning of a word, espe- 
cially when this word is closely connected with the preceding. 

g. a. Sometimes a vowel remains short before a mute followed by X 
or as ^A<l>po&iTrf T 380, &p,4>XPpanji B 389, &fx<l>XSpv<li^ B 700, Trp&rpa- 
ir&r$ai Z 336, vcvore KpoviW A 528, jSaXe Upea/uSao F 356, yap pa KAvrai- 
pvqarpvfi A 113. These words and phrases could not have been brought 
into the verse if the mute and liquid must make length by position, and 
the history of the language shows that this combination of mute and 
liquid was gradually losing its weight. 

p. That a mute and liquid do not always make length by position is 
explained by the ease with which the combination can be pronounced at 
the beginning of a syllable, leaving the preceding vowel short. 

y. Before four words, two of which begin with the double consonant 
{ and two with the two consonants o-jc (not a mute and a liquid), the 
preceding vowel remains short : oi re ZokwOov B 634, oi 8c ZeXciav B 824) 
irpoxtovTo ^KapdvSptov B 465, iTreira a-Keirapvoy c 237. 

h. a. A single X, /a, v, p, <r, at the beginning of certain words, may 
make position (cf. § 30 : lirea vi<^a8carari T 222 (cf, dya-m<^ A 420 and 
English snow), 

p. So also 8 makes position in the stem Bpi- (8curai fear), and always 
In Siyv long, as iBciaev ^ 6 ycpw A 33, ov ti pkXa Sijv A 416. 

i. a. Cognate languages and collateral dialectic forms show that most 
words which in the Attic dialect began with p, once began with a-p or pp. 
This explains the doubling of the p after the augment and in composi- 
tion, as well as its power to make position in Homeric verse. 

p. Of the instances of lengthening before p, most are only physiologi- 
cally explained, — the prsoimd being easily continued until it is virtually a 
double consonant. But this lengthening occurs only before certain stems, 
not before iia\€odax, pmtv, poGvos ktX. 

j. One of the consonants which made position has often been lost, as 
ypiyt hi fuv puKvta V 386, ^cXos cxcitcvkcs A 51, $w ws T 230 (for 
pilk), cf. Kojcov (OS B 190, opvi^es cSs T 2, ireXcKvs <I>s F 60, oi 8* 3p' ta-av c5$ 
crrcB780. 



§ 69 m. 



HOMERIC VERSE. 



xlix 



k. a. A long final vowel or diphthong in the arsis of the foot is regu- 
larly shortened before a following vowel : 'ArpciStu re koI SXXoi ivicvif- 
fu&s *A;(tuoi A 17, rtfv ^ cyw ov Avcro) A 29. The shortening of a long 
vowel is essentially the elision of half the vowel (§ 27 </). 

fi. Final ou, oc, a are most frequently shortened before an initial vowel. 
Final oc is shortened eight times as often as final 17. 

y. The diphthongs with v seem to have been more firm in retaining 
their quantity than those with i. 

8. This shortening of diphthongs seems to indicate a tendency of the 
final I or V of the diphthong to go into its cognate y {J} or w (p) sound 
and disappear (cf, § 23/). In Pindar, also, a final diphthong is short- 
ened five times as often as a long final vowel. Of course there was no 
hiatus as long as the j or p was spokeo. 

c. Final ^ and are shortened before an initial vowel more rarely 
than other diphthongs. <^ is seldom shortened except before an e or (less 
frequently) an a. 

1. Before a pause (as before the close of the verse, see § 57 j), a short 
vowel may be used in place of a long vowel : iiaripaax Upidfwio voXxv 

A 19 \ Kj I^A. Not infrequently thus the short final 

vowel of a vocative takes the place of a long syllable, even co vie IIcreaM) A 
338 ; in such cases the nominative form frequently could be used. The 
pause in the rhythm occupies the remainder of the time which would be 
spent in pronouncing a long syllable, J = J Before a pause, 
also, a long final vowel may preserve its quantity although the following 
word begins with a vowel. 

m. A few verses seem to begin with a short syllable, as 09 ^817 ra r 
ioirra A 70 (for Ss § 32). 



BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE. 



The Homeric Mss. are better and more ancient than those of any other 
secular Greek author. In all, more than one hundred are known and de- 
scribed. The most valuable for the Homeric text, and far the most valu- 
able for the old Greek Commentary (2x<>^)> ^ known as Venetus 
in the library of San Marco at Venice. It contains the entire Iliad, 
with Introduction and Scholia, on 325 leaves of parchment in large folio, 
15x11 inches. It was written not later than the eleventh century of our 
era. 

The earliest printed edition of Homer was that of Demetrius Chalcon- 
dylas, in two large and handsome volumes, Florence, 1488. 

The most important critical editions of the Iliad, are those of Bekker 
(1858), La Roche (1873), Nauck (1877), Christ (1884). 

Convenient text editions are those of Dindorf-Hentze (Leipzig, 1884) 
and Cauer (Leipzig, 1890). 

The most scholarly English edition of the entire Iliad, is as yet that of 
Leaf, in two volumes, London, 1886, 1888. 

The most convenient small work treating of (a) the general literary 
characteristics of the poems, (li) the Homeric world, (c) Homer in an- 
tiquity, (d) the Homeric question, is Homer; An Introduction to the Iliad 
and the Odyssey by Professor Jebb, Boston, 1887. 

Homer, a * literature primer,' by Gladstone, New York, 1878, will be sug- 
gestive and helpful to many, although it is not to be compared with Pro- 
fessor Jebb's work. 

The * Homeric question ' is clearly stated in The Origin of the Homeric 
Poems, by Bonitz, translated by Professor Packard, New York, 1880. 

Matthew Arnold's Essay On translating Homer, in Essays in Criticism, 
makes distinct the most prominent characteristics of Homeric style. 

Monro's Grammar of the Homeric Dialect, Oxford, 1891, is by far the 
best work on the subject in the English language. 



JjUm4^ / :,u:CJi^ /AjL^~:y^ .yt^iycX^ 

) 

OMHPOT lAIAAOS A. 

^'AX^a Xpierov, \otfihtf arparov, ^x^^' ftydtermp. 
Alpha preces Chrysae^ pestis mala, iurgia regum. 

* Alpha the prayer of Chryses sings : 
The army's plague : the strife of kings/ 

Mfjviv aetSe, Oed, Ylrfkriuioeo} *A;^iX'^o9 
ovXoficjnjyy ^ fivpC *A.^(iiol% akyie Wtjkg/, 
TTiJkimt St^ i^Kjiov^ ^X^^ *At8t irpotaiffiu 
•qpdwv, avrov9 8c iXatpia T€V)(€ kw^cciv 
5 otoivoUrl rc Saira, A to? S' ireX^Uro ^aukrj, 
ov Brj ra irpcjra SiaaTryniv iplo'iarfi' 
Arp^thtj^ T€ iva^ avhp&p kcu 8169 *A)(IXX€V5. 

rk T ap (T^fnae Oe&v epiSt ^in^erjKe /xa^^ccr^ai ; 
Ar/Tov^ Koi A109 6 yap fiaaiXifi X'^^^^^^ 

10 povarop apa (rrparop Zpae KaKijp, okeKopTO 8c Xaoi, 
ovP€Ka TOP XpvariP yjTLfiao'ep apTfTripa 
^ArpetSTf^. 6 yap ^\0€ 6oa^ cirt pija^ *A;(ata)i' 
Xvcroftc^o? rc dvyarpa ^4pmp r air^peio'C dnoipa, 
oTCft/xaT' ix^J^ X^pcru' iKTffiokqv *AiroXXa>vo9 
16 XP^^V (ndjirrpfa, koi ikia'cero irapra^ *A;(atovs, 
*Arp€tBa 8c fidXtara 8vco, Koa'firjTop€ Xaaiv * 
*Arp€t8ctt rc ical aXXoi ivKPrjyLtZ^s ^A^aiot, 
v/xtt^ /xcv ^col 8o2ev *OXv/iirta 8(ufJtar' ^oi^C9 



2 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS A. 



iKmpaai Uptdfioio irdXii/, iv 8* oticaS* iKecffai • 

BO iraiSa 8* c/xot Xv<r<u re <f>i\7jv, rd rairoLPa BcxecOtUg 
a^ofia/OL Ato5 vtoi^, iiajfioXov *AirdXXa)i/a.** 

aXXoi /xe/ irdvre^ iireixfnjiirja'ap 'Amatol 
oAZeiadai ieprja koI ayXaa h4^0ai airoiva * 
aXX* ovK ^Arp^thrj *Ayafi€fii/ovi rjpBape 0v[i^, 

26 dXXa KaK&^ d<f>U(>, Kparepov 8* cirl fivdov ereWep • 
" /xTj (r€, yipov, KoiX'Qa'u/ eya> Tra/oa mjucri ict;(cta> 

i/vi/ BrjOwovT ^ varrepop avrts lopra, 
fiij pv rot ov XP^^H'V ^^f^T^pop ^at ore/x/Lia dcoZo. 
TTyi' 8* eyo) ou Xvo-oi • rrptv ftti' Kat yrjpas emicip 

30 T7/xcTcpG) €j/t oticfti Kpjei, Trfkodi irdrpjf^, 
iarrop €Trov)(oyL€pyiP koX ifiop Xe^o? dpTL6a}a'ap, 
aAA iC/t, fiT) fi €p€uiQ€, (raanepo^ a>9 k€ peqai, 

€(f>aT, eSeicep 8* 6 yepojip kol iweCdero iiv0a>, 
^7) 8* aKdcDP irapa ffipa irokv^Xoio'fioi.o 0aKd(r(rri^, 

86 TToXXa 8' emiT dndpevde Kioip r/paff' 6 yepcuos 
'AnoKXcoPL dpaKTk, top '^vko/jlo^ T€K€ Ar/rd • 
" kXvOl fiev, dpyvp6ro^% os Xpvarjp afif^ifiefirjKa^ 
KiXXw TC ^aOe-qp, TepeSoio re l(f>i apdacei^, 
Sfiipff^v, €1 TTore Tot \apUpr cttI pt^op cpoj^a, 

40 ^ €1 87; 7roT€ Tot Kara wlopa fjirjpi etcqcC^ 
TavpQ}p rjSi* aiycip, ToSe [loi KprjTjpap i€kS(op • 
Ttcrctav Aai/aoi ifia SdKpva aoicri fiikeacip*^* 

a>9 c<^ar* exr^ofiepo^, tov 8' licXvc ^olfios *ATrdXXa>u. 
)8tJ 8c /car* OvXv/iTToto Kapijpwp x^ofiepo^ fcrjp, 

46 rd^' (OfiOKriP €)((ap dfi(f}7jpe(l>€a t€ <f>ap€rp7jp • 
ekkay^ap 8' a/o* otorot ctt' a>/xaii^ yo^Ofiipoio, ^ 
avrov KLPTjdePTO^ • 6 8' ijtc w/crt eot/ccSs. 
€4cT CTTCtT aTTOpevue P€(op, fiera o lop iriKCP • 
y€P€T dpyvpdolo )3totb. 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK L 



50 ovprja^ fiev irpSnov cir^j(cro koX Kwas apyov^\ 
aifTap €rr€LT avTolci fieko^ ix^rrevKes €<^tcl9 
nvpaX vetcvwp Kaiovro da/iciai. 
evyrjfiap fih ava a-rparw ixero Ky}\a Oeoio, 
SeKary 8* ayopyjvBe Kakeaaaro Xaop ' A;(iXXcv9 • 

55 rol yap iitl (f>p€(rl OrjKe Bed, XevKwXevo^ "H/oiy • 
KrjSero yap Aava&v, on pa OvrjaKovra^i oparo. 
ol 8* iir^i ovv yjyepOep o/iriyepec^ tc ya/otrro, 
Toto'L 8* avurrdyLei/o^ fieri^ 7rd8as <m/cv9 ' A^^XXev? • 
" ^Arpethrj, vvv afifie TraXu/ irXayxdivra^ olcd 

60 airovoaTrj(T€iv, ct k€v Odvarov ye if)vyoLii€i/, 
ei Srj ofiov TToXe/xo? re 8a/xa Koi Xot/109 'Axatow. 
aXX* dye 87; riva fidimv epetofiev ri ieprja 
^ Kol oveipoTToKov, KoX ydp r on/ap eK A165 iarw, 
09 K etiroL art toco'ov exdcraTo *ot)8o9 ^AnoWcjv, 

65 et T dp* o y cv^oiXiJ? CTTi/xc/jM^erat el ff eKaTOiifirj^, 
ai K€i^ TTois dpv&v Kvicrri^ aiywv re reXetcoi/ 
fiovkerai avridcra^ ijiitv diro Xoiyov diiwai" 

ij rot o y CDS ctwcoj' icar ap eQero, toktl o avearri 
KqX)(a^ BcoToptSi/s, oioji'OTroXiiJV o;(* aptoro?, 

70 05 ^oiy Ta T €oi/ra ra r ecaofieva irpo r eopra, 
icat vfjeaa" rfyqo'aT A.xox<av Wiov eicro) 

* ^ 8ta yLomofrvvrfV, rrjv ol trope <I>otj8o5 'AttoXXoii^, 
o (T^ti^ iv <f>pove(ov dyoprjcaTo Kal /xereetTrci/ • 
" 3 *A;(tXcv, iceXeai fie, Su<f>LXe, fivdija'aa'daL 

fb fifjviv 'AttoXXoii^os, eKarrj^eXerao dvaicro^ • 

rotrydp eyoii/ €/o€G), orv 8c (Tvv0eo, Kai fioi ofiocaov 

fiev fioi irp6(f>pQ}p enetriv Kal \ep(TW dpij^eiv. 
^ ydp OLOfiai dvhpa ^X(s}a'eiL€v, 09 fieya wdmo)y 
*Apyeian/ icpareet, /cat ot ireidovrai *A;(atot. 

80 Kpeiarcfav ydp SacrtXevs, ore xdiO'eTai dvSpl X^PV^ ' 



4 



OMHPOY lAlAAOS A, 



€t yap T€ ypKov ye koI avrfjiiap Karaarofrg, 
aXXd Tc Kai fieToirurOei^ kotov, wj>pa Tekcaajj, 
iv anjdea-criv ioio'L. crv 8c <f>pd<rau, ct fie catoceis** 
TOP 8* d7ra/x€i)8o/xo^o9 irpoceffyrj 9ro8a9 ductf^ *A)(iKKev< 

S6 Oapaijca^ fidXa eine Oeowpomov otl olcOa • 
ov fia yap 'AiroXXcui^a 8iuj}iXov, ^ re (tu, KaX^ai/* 
€v\6fA,€PO^ AamoZcri Oeoirpoma^ avojf^aivei^, 
ov Tt5 €/ici) Ja)i^o9 ^at cttI \dovi hepKOfi4voio 
aoi kolXji^ napa vrjva-t fiapeCas X^^P^^ inoio'eL 
90 (TvinravTOiP AavaZv, ovS* -^i/ ^Ayofie/ivopa etirg^, 
09 TToXXw apiarro^ 'A^ataii/ cv^crai cli^ai/' 
^ Kal Tore 8^ ddpcrqa-e kojL i/vSa fidirns dfiviJLcjip • 
" ovt' a/0* o y' cvxci>X^5 em/x€/i<^6Tai ou^ eKaTOfifiri^, 
dXX* S/CK* apjjTTjpos, OP ■fjfrifiTjKr ^Ayafiefipajip 

95 ov8* d7rcXv(r€ dvyarpa kcu ovk amhi^ar anoipa, 
TovP€K ap aXye* cSodkcp c/ci;)8dXo9 ^8* ert 8(ua'€i. 
ov8* o -ye TT/oli^ Aai/aowrtv deticeia Xoiyoi/ dnoicrei,, 
irpip y avo iraTpX <^iXo) 8o/i€i/ai €XiiccSTri8a Kovprfv 
dwpLciTTjP opdiroLPOP, ayeip (t UprjP iKarofiPyjp 

100 €9 'KpyoT/p' t6t€ k€p flip tXa^adfi€PO(> ir€WL0oLfi€py 
rot o y 0)9 €Lir(op Kar ap €C,€to, tomti o ap€<rrq 
rjpoi)^ ^ArpetSyj^, €vpv Kpetaup 'Aya/iifipwp 
dxyvfiepo^ * fiepeo^ he fiiya (f}p€P€^ dii<f)i[iekaw€u 
TTt/iTrXoi^*, otrae he oi irvpl XainrerofovTL iiicnjp, 

106 KdX^ai/ra npcorurTa Kdic oa'aofiepo^ rrpoaeeiirtp • 
" fidpTi KaKWP, ov TTcS iTOTe fLoi TO Kpijyvop elira^ • 
^ ai€t rot rd kcik* ecrrl <^cXa <f)pe(rl /utai^cvccr^ai, 
IcdXop 8* ovrc Tt TTO) ctTTtt? ejTo? ovTC reXecrcra?. 
Koi pvp ip Aapaouri. Oeonpoirecjp dyopeikL^, 

110 <M9 817 rov8' €P€Kd a<l>ip iKr)/36Xo^ dXyea Tev)(€i», 
ovp€K iyo) Kovprj^ Xpv(n](8o^ dyXa diroipa 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK L 



ovK idekov Sc^aadai, — incl iroXv fiovXofiai avTrjP 
OLKOL €X€LV' KOL ydp pa KXvTaifivrjfTTpi}^ wpoPe^vKa, 
KovpvSirj^ aK6)(ov, imt ov kdei/ core ^^peitiiv, 

116 ov 8e/xa9 ovSc ^vriv, ovr ap <f>p€i/as ovre tl ipya. 
dXXa icai 0)9 iOcKo) Sofiepat vaXu/, ci to y dficivoi/ • 
fiovkofi iyo) \<wp (Toov ififiei^ai rj aTroXecrdou. 
airrap ifiot yepas avrix crot/xa(rar*, 6<f>pa firj otb? 
*Apy€LCi)P dyCjpaoTos io), inel ovSc colko/ • 

120 \ev(r(r€r€ yap to yc iravre^, o fiot yepa^ €p\€Tai aWjj.^ 
Tov 8' '^iMcifier eWetra 7ro8dpK7)s 8to9 'A^^tXXcv? • 
** ^ATpetSrj /cu8coTC, ^ikoKT^avdrran iravroiv, 
irws ydp TOL hmcrovo'i ycpa^ fieydOv/ioi 'A^atoi ; 

0v8€ TL TTOV iBfiei/ ^irqUL K€L[l€Va iToXXd, 

126 dXXd rd fiep voXlodp i^enpdOofiei/, rd 8€SaoTax, 
Xaov9 8' OVK iireoLKc TraXcXXoya Tavr eirayeip^vir. 
aAAa ov ii€i/ vw Trjvoe C/c^ irpoe^, avrap Aj^atot 
TpLirXy TcrpairXp r airoTiaroiiev, at K€ irodi Zcv^ 
8a>(ri trokiv Tpoirjv hneL^i^ov c^aXaTrd^at/' 

13(K' TOV 8* dirafieifiofia/o^ 7rpo(r€<f>rj Kp^Uop * Ayaficiivcov • 
"/x^ &7 ovrci)9, dya^o9 mp idp, $€0€iK€k* 'A^^XXcv, 
KkeTTTe v6(o, iirel ov irapeXevceai ov8c fie Trcwrct^. 
^ €C/c\€t9, O0P avro9 c^l/s yepas, avrap cfi avTcj^ 
ffcOai hevofievoVy KeXeai 8c /xc njvh* diroBovvai ; 

136 dXX* ct /xci/* 8ft)croV(rt ycpa^ fieyddvfioi 'A^cuot, 
dpaavres Kara dvfiov, on(os amd^iov eorat • 
€t 8c KC /x^ 8o)a)0'ii/, cyo* 8c' k€v. avro? cXcoftat 
Tcw Atai/ro9 t<wv ycpas, rj ^OSvarjo^ 
, a^o) • 6 8c K€i/ K€)(o\(oa'erai, ov k€p LKcofioLt. 

140 dXX* ^ rot /xcj/ Ta5ra /jL€Ta(f}pa^6fie(r0a Kal aSrt?, 
. 8* dye vfja fiiXawav epvcrarofiep ct9 dXa hiav^ 
h 8' ipera^ cmrjjScv dyeipofiev, is 8* iKaroiiPrjv 



6 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS A. 



O^ioii&t w 8' avrr/p XpyarfiBa KaXKLirdpjjov 
)8ifcro/x€i'. €C9 8c Tt9 dp)(o^ avrjp fiov\rj<f>6pos coroi 
145 7) Atas 7] *l8o/i€i'CV9 rj 8tos *08v(r<r€U9 

^€ (TV, IlTyXclf&jy, travrtav eKiraykorar dvhp&v, 
wf>p rjiiiv €Ka€pryop lAacrcreai tcpa pcga?. 

Toi' o a/) viroopa locdv irpocreqyri Trooa? cokv9 AxtAAcv? 
" a> /xoi, avoLihevqv iTneL/iei/c, K^phaXeo^pov, 
160 TTols Tt5 roc Trpo^pwv cneaiv miOyjrai ^A')(aiSiv 
^ ohov iXdefiQ/at ^ dvhpdo'iv l(f>L /idxecdaL ; 
ov yap iyo) Tpdcjv €i/€k rjXvdov aixfirjrdoMf 

o fiaxricofievo^, cttcI ov tC fioi amoi elaa/ • 
ov ydp ird) tror ifid^ fiov^ rjXao'av, ou8c fih/ Imrov^, 
156 ov8€ voT h/ ^OvQ ipi^dXcLKL ^(OTLaveCpy 

Kapirov ihrjKrjo'ajn y iml ^ fidXa ttoXXol fi€Ta$v, 
ovped r€ (XKLoein'a ddXacad re rjx'ij^o'a'a • 
aAAa (Toi, CO /xcy ai^atocs, a/jt ctrTroftctf, o^/oa <rv X^^PV^- 
riiiriv dpvvfi€i/oL Ma/eXd(o aoi re, Kvp&ira, 
. leo TTpo^ TpcocDv, T&v OV TL fLeraTpi'njj ovh* dXeyi^ei^ • 
Kcu 817 fioL ycpas avTo^ d<f>aip7j(rea'daL aTTCtXct?, 
^ €irt iroXXa [loyr/a'at hocav 8c /itoc vfc? *A;(atc!>i/. 
ov fi€P (TOL iroT€ Xcop €\(t) ycptts, oirTTOT 'Amatol 
Tp€0(i}v iKmp(r(0(r iv vaiofia/ov moXUdpov • 
165 dXXa TO irXetov iroXvduco^ iroXcfioLO 

X€i/)€9 €/xat 8teirov<r', drdp yjv rrore Bac/Jios cio/Tat, 
(Tol TO ycpa^ iroXv fiel^ov, iyco 8* oXtyov re if>iXov tc 
€pxop** ex<ov inl vfja^, imC k€ Kdfio) iroXefiL^Q}^. 
vw 8' cT/jtt ^dvqvh^t ivel ^ iroXv <f)€pT€p6p ioTU^ 
170 oiicaS' ?/jL€v (Tvi' jnyvcrt Kopo^viaiv, ovZi cr* oto) 

TOP 8' Tiii^iPer eneiTa ava^ dvhplav ^Aya/Jiefivtov • 
" <f>arye fidX*, el tol Ovfio^ iiridavrai, ovhi <r eycS yc 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK L 



Xurcro/xat €W€k i/ieio /leveLv * Trap' €/xoi ye ictu aXXot, 

176 ot K€ lie Ttftif trover t, /xaXcora 8c iirfrUra Zcv?. 
e)(0iaTo^ hi fioL io'Ci hiorp^^oiv fiao'iKrjQiv • 
atci yap rot cpt? re ^iXt} irok^fioi t€ fid)(ai re. 
ci /JLaXa Kaprepos iccn, deo^ ttov croi to y* eSa)/C€i^. 
OLKaS* ioi}v aifp prjva-C t€ 0^9 /cat 0-019 kTapouriv 
/ 180 MvpfiiSopea-criv avaa-a-e. aiOev 8' eyo) ov/c dXcyi^oi 
ov8' odofiai KOTcovTo^ ' aTreLXrja'o} 8c rot 58c. 
(09 c/x* a^aipeirai 'Kpv<rrjv8a ^olfios *A7r6\\a)v, 
rrjp fi€P iyo) crw vrjC r kol iiioi^ irdpoto'u/ 
TTC/xi/ro), eyo) 8c k ay(o Bp^rrjiSa KaWnrdpgop 

186 auro9 lo)V KkKTvqvht, to cov y€pa<;, o^p cu ci8^9, 
occov <f)€pT€p6s ^IfiL o-eOei/, oTvyeiQ 8c koJL aXXo9 
Xcrov i/iot <f>da'0at, /cat ofiOLcoOyjfia/ai dprrip** 

a>9 ^ctTO • XliyXctcoi/t 8* a^09 yii/er, iv 8c ot ^Top 
anjdea-cu/ XaxrCoia-L 8tai/8t;(a fL^pp/qpi^ei/, 

190 ^ o yc ^doyavov o^v ipva-a-dfia/os irapa firfpov 
T0V9 ftci/ dvaoTTjceLa/, 6 8* ^ArpetBrjp ivapUfii, 
^€ x^\ov TravaeLep ip7)TV(reve tc Ovfion/. 
^09 6 TaS^ wpiiaxve. Kara <f>p€va Kal Kara dvfiop, 
cXiccto 8' c/c /coXcoto ftcya ^t<^o9, ^X^c 8* *A07jpri 

196 ovpavoOei/ • irpo yap -^/cc ^ca, Xcv/c(i5Xcj'09 ''Hpiy, 
a/jt^o) 6/xo>9 ^Vfto) (f}L\€ovad tc KrjSoiiivrj tc. 
crr^ 8* omOei/, iavOrj^ 8c KOfiT)^ cXc XlT^Xc&tii/a, 
otip <f>aAvoii€in], tS)p 8* aXXco^ ou Tt9 oparo, 
ddfi^rjaa/ 8* *AxtXci;9, ftera 8* irpdner, avrt/ca 8* eypoi 
\|a00 naXX<£8* ^AdrjvaiTjv • 8cti/ai 8c ot oo-o-c (f)dai/0€P. 
Kal fiu/ ((xoprjca^ CTTca wrtpoevra 7rpo(rr)v8a • 
** tmjt' aSr', atytd^oto Ato9 tcko^, elXijkovda^ ; 
rj wa vfipiv tSij *Ayafi€fivoPo^ ^ArpetSao ; 
aXX* c/c Tot ip€(o, TO Sk kol Tekceadat otco • 



8 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS A. 



Tov 8* avre irpocrcctTrc Oed, yXavKwns *A0ijyrj • 
" ^\0ov iyo) Travaovara to aov /levo^, at k€ iriffTjat, 
ovpavoda/ • irpo 8e /i t/kc Bed, Xev/cc^Xevos "H/aiy, 
dfufno o/i&s Ovfi^ <l>iX€ova'd re icqhoiieirq r€. 

210 aXX* aye Xrjy €/>iSo9» ftiySc ^t<^os IXicco X^V^* 
dXX* ''^ot eirto'iv jjih/ ov^lSurop, cw? ecrcrat wcp. 
' S8c yap i^epco), to 8e icat TCTcXco-fte^i' eorat • 
#cat TTOTc rot rpt? roca-a Trapeaa-erai dyXaa 8ai/>a 
v^/>to9 ca^cica n7(r8c • <ru 8* ur^eo, ireiOeo 8* 

216 8' diraiMeifiofiQ/o^ irpomifyq 7ro8a9 ciicv^ 'A^tXXcvs • 

" XP^ f^^^ (T^trcpw yc, Oed, eiros elpva-a-aa-ffai, 
KOI fidka mp 0vfi£ K€)(o\(Ofi€i/ai/ * o)^ yap afieivop * 
09 #c€ ^€0t9 inimCdrjTaLf fidka r €k\vop avroC.** 
^ icat CTT* dpyvpeg Kcairg (rxede X^P^ fiapelay, 

220 ai/f 8* C9 Koi/Xew 5(r€ [leya ^u^09> ov8* dirLdrjarei^ 
fivffo) *A0rjvaLrj^. ij 8' OuXv/X7rw8€ fiefiijKeiv 
Scifiar €9 aiytoxoto Ato9 fterd haifiova^ dXXov9. 

ni7Xct8779 8' c^aSrt? draprrjpoLS iTriecro-w 
'Arpethrjv Trpoa-eeLire, koL ov tto) \rjye ^oXoto • 

226 " oLvofiapcs, Kwo^ o/ifiar €)(a)v, KpaZCrjp 8* eXd^io, 
ovre TTOT C9 ttoXc/xov d/xa Xa^ d(aprix6y}vax 
ovT€ Xoxov8* teit^at dpianrjeo'a'iv 'Ajfatwi' 
rerX'jjfcag ^Vft^ • to 8c TOt Ki^p €t8€Tat e&at. 
^ TToXv Xcoio^ €OTt Kajd arparhv evpvv *A)(cucjv 

230 85p* dnoaipeLO-Oai, 05 Tt9 (riOei/ dvrloi/ €L7rg • 

hrjiMofiopo^ ^curtX€V9, cttcI ourt8avota'ti/ di/dcro'Ci^ • 

ydp ^Arpet^, vvv varara Xco^Tjaaio. 
dXX' c/c TOt €/:>€CD« /cat cTrt fieyav opKov o/xoOftat. 
vat ftd To8€ CKrj'jrrpop • ro /xcv ou ttotc <^vXXa icat o{ov$ 

236 ^varei, iirel 817 vp&ra toim^v ev opccrcrt XcXotircy, 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK L 



ov8* wadyjkrja'^i • mpl yap pd e x^X/cos ikojfev 
<f>vWa re Koi ^Xolop • vw avrc fiiv vies 'A^cttSj^ 
irakayLjis ^opeovai hiKaa"ir6koi, ol re defiLoras 
irpos Ato9 eipvaroL • 6 8c roi fieyas eacrerai opKos ' 

040 ^ TTOT* *Aj(cXX^o9 noOrj l^erai vlas *A)(aLciv 

aviiwavras • rore 8' ov rt SvpujceaL ayyvfievos irep 
')(paLO'fieLP, evr av iroWoi v(j> ''EKropos av8po<f}6voio 
dvrjo'Kovre^ mwroHrL • crv 8' a/ho0i Ovfiov ajjiv^eLs 
\(t)6iievos, o r apicrrov *A.^ai5iv ovhev erKras*^ 

24^ (f)dro HrjXetSris, irorl 8e orKyjirrpov fidke ydCjf 
yjpvaeiois rjkoia-i rreTrapiievov, e^ero 8' avrds. 
*Arpet8r]s 8' erepoidep iinjvue. rotcn he Neorcjp 
iJ8v€7r79 avopova-e, Xtyvs UvXuov ayoprjrijs, 
rov /cat ano yXdccrrfs fieXtros yXvKuav peev avhij. 

250 TO) 8* TjBrj Svo /lev yeveal /lepoircop dvOpconoiv 
e(l>0Ca6^, ol oi trpocrdev aifia rpd(f)ev '^Se yevovro 
ep IIvX^ Tiyaderj, /xera 8c rpirdTOKTiv dvaacev. 
o a'<f>LV eif <l>pov€(op dyopij<raro kol fiereeiTrep • 
"A iroTTOL, ^ [leya irevdos *A)(auha yalav iKdvei* 

256 ^ Kev yrjffija-aL Ilpca/xo? Ilpia/xoid re rraiSes, 
aXXoi re Tp&es fieya Kev Kexapoiaro Ov/i^, 
el a'(f>SiLP rdhe irdma wOoiaro /xapva/ievouPt 
ot nepi fieu fiovXriP Aapacji/, irepl 8* ecrre p.dyeo'dajL. 
dXXa rrWeaff* dp.^ 8c ve(or€p<o efrrov ep.eto. 
1 2i90 1781^ ydp iror eyo) koX dpeioaiv 17c irep v/jlu^ 

dvhpdcriv wp^iXyja'a, kol ov irorc fi ol y ddepi^ov. 
ov ydp TTOi roCovs iSov dvepas, ovSe c!Sa>/xat, 
otov HeLptdoop re Apvavrd re, rroipeva XaSiv, 
Kaivea r *E^a8tdv re kol dvrWeov HoXv^iiov 

265 [©lyo-ca r ^AlyethrjVy eineiKeXov ddavdroicnv\. 
Kdpria-roL 8^ Kelvoi eTrv)(dovio)v rpd(f>€i/ dvhp&v • 



10 



OMHPOY IAIAA02 A. 



ifyqpaii/ opecrKf^LaL, koX iKvdyXioi aTToXeaaav. 
Kot iih/ TolaiP eyo) fiedo/iCkeop iK IIvXov iXOdp, 

870 Trj\60€i/ aTTVH)^ yairj^ • Kokea'airro yap avrot • 

Koi fiaxoiirjv Kar ifi avrov iyd • K€u/oi(ri 8* iv ov tis 
tUp, ol vvv JSpoToi el(rw inixOovfjoi, fiaxeoiro. 
Kot ii& fiev fiovXeoiv ^vi€u ireiOovro r€ fivOq). 
aXka 7rt0e<r0€ Koi viifie^, iml ir^ideo'daL a/ietvop. 

276 /txifrc av TovS*, ayaOos vep idv, airoaLpeo Kovprfv, 
aXX' la, <S9 OL irpSrra hoacu/ ycpa^ vte^ 'Axai&v * 
fnjre crv, niyXciSTy, 0ek* ipi^efievai PafTLkfji 
avTifiirjv, iwel ov itoff ofioirj^ ififiope rifi'^^ 
(TKTiTrTovxo^ fiaciXev^, ^ tc Zcv9 kvSos c8co#c€i/. 
-^280€t 8^ Kaprepo^ iaai, 0€a 8c crc yeCparo /xijnyp, 
dXX* oSc <f}epTep6^ iarw, inel TrXeopeacru/ at/dcra-eu 
*Arp€t^, aif Se irave t€ov fiepo^ • avrap eycS ye 
Xiaaofi *AxiK\rjL ii€04ii€v xoXop, 09 fieya iraLaup 
ipKo^ *Aj(atOMr«' vikerai voKifioto KaKolo** 

285 TOi' 8* d'7rafi€t/36ii€PO^ Trpoadifyri Kpeuav *Ayafi€fiv(av • 
" v(u 8rj ravrd ye irdvra, yepov, Kara p^oipav eetire^. 
aXX' 08* avr/p e0e\eL Trepl irdvT(ov e/ifiei/ai aKkwp, 
irdvTCDP p,ev Kpareeiv e0e\ei, 'irdvreo'a'L 8* dvdao'eiv, 
iracL 8c (rqiiaiveiv, a rw ov 7reia'ea'0ai oua. 

290 el 8c fiLv aixinjTTjv e0ea'av 0eoi atci/ cdircs, 
TovveKa oi irpoOeovo'iv oveCBea fiv07ja'a(r0aL ; *' 
TOP 8* dp* virofihjSTjv '^fietfiero 8109 'Ax^XXcvs • 
ydp K€P 8ciXo9 TC ical ovriJSapo^ KokeoCfirjP, 
ei Sff crol irap epyop virei^ofiai, orn k€p ctirg? • 

296 aXXoKTO/ 817 ravT cttitcXXco, firj yap c/jtot yc 

[jcnjfiaw. ov yap eycu y* crt crol Trctcrccr^at ouo.jj 
aXXo 8e TOi cpcco, crv 8* ipl ^peai fidXKeo <rQ(ruf. 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK L 



11 



X€/o<ri fikv ov Toi eyci ye iia)(rja'Ofiai e&e/ca Kovpnt)^ 
ovT€ (rot ovT€ TO) oXkfp, imC fi a<f>e\€a'd€ ye Bovres • 

300 T&v 8* ak\<ov a fiot ecrri Boy trapa vrjt fieXaivj), 
r&v ovK av ri (f)€poL^ dveXcjv deKovros ifxeio. 
ei 8* aye firfv neLpTjcai, Iva yv<o(0(TL Kai oSc • 
al^d TOL aifia KeXatvov epoyqarei rrepl Sovpt** 
Qt^ T€o y avTL^CoKTL fiax^o-afio/o) eireeaa-iv 

306 dpoTTjrrjv, Xvccw 8' dyopr/p irapd vr/vali/ 'Aj^otSj^, 
TlT/XetSris yt^ev iirl icXwrca? koI j/rja^ etaa^ 
Tjie <rw TC MevomdBjf kol oh erdpOLcru/, 
*AT/)€f8i79 8* dpa vrja do7)v aXaSc irpoepvcraet/, 
€9 8* eperas eKpwev eeiKOfTiv, c? 8' eKaT6[ifirjv 

310 firjae 0e^, dvd 8c Xpv(rrfi8a KaWvrrdpjjov 

eUrep ayiav • ev 8* dp^o^ efirj iroXv/utiyTts '08v(r<r€U9. 

oi [leu eireiT dt/a^dvre^ eireTrKeov vypd KeXevOa, 
Xaov9 8' *ATpet8r}s diroKviiaivea'Oai dvioyev, 
Oi 8' dTreKvficupopro kol eU oXa Xvfiar efiaWov, 

316 ephov 8' 'AiroXXcoi/c re\rjea-<ra^ cfcard/x^a5 
TovpoiP alySip irapd ffiv aXo9 arpvyeroto • 
Kvurrf 8* ovpavov iKeu cXwrcro/jto^ irepi Kairv^. 

As oi fieu rd irevovro Kara arparov • ov8' ^AyafiefivcDP 
\.7jy epiSo^, r^p irpSnov eirqireikr^a 'A^iXtJi, 

320 dXX* o ye Takdyfiiov re Koi 'EvpvfiaTrjp irpoo'eeiirev, 
Tftl oi ecav icijpvKe kol OTprjpa) Oepdtrovre • 
" epxecdov KXtcrirjp IlrjXrjLdheci} 'A^tX-^o? ' 
X€t/>o9 cXoi^' dyefiev BpiarjiBa KaWvrrdpjjov. 
ei he Ke /irj S(ij^(rw, iyo) 8c Kev avro^ eXcufiai, 

(325 i\0a>p crw irXeovea-a-L • to oi koX piyiov co-rat.'* 

a>s eiir^v vpotei, Kparepop 8* cm fivdop ereXXep. 
TO} 8* deKOpre fidnqp trapd ffip aXos drpvyerou), 
1Avpfii&6p(op 8' CTTt rc /cXtatas ^at prja^ iKeadrjP. 



12 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS A. 



Tw S' €vpop irapd re ickKrCji Kat vrjl fieXaii^ 

330 rjfiepov ' ov8' apa rd yc IBcov yij0r}a-€v 'A;;(tXXcvs. 
TO) fi€P rapPrjo'ajne koX aiSofievo) fiaaiXfja 
anjrrip, ovSc tl fitv irpo(r€<f>(oP€op ov8* ipeovro • 
wrap 6 €yp<o ^aiv hil <f>p€ai ^umrqccv re • 
" )(aLper€, KijpvK€^, Atos dyyekoi lySc icat avhpSa/. 

336 aiaarov It * ov tl fioi v/xfies inaiTtOL, aW* *AyoLiieiww, 
o a'<f>&L irpotei BpKrrftSo^ elveKa Kovprf^. 
aXX* aye, Stoyci/cg nar/>oicX€C9» i^ayc Kovprfp 
Kat (r(f>(OLP 86? aytiv. to) 8* avro) fidprvpoL eartov 
irpo^ r€ OeSa/ fxaKapKov irpo9 T€ din)T&v dvdp(oir(0P 

340 ical irpo9 ToC )8acnX^o9 dwqvio^, ct ttotc 8^ avrc 
^eio) efLea) ya/r/Tai deiKea Xotyop d/iwaL 
rots aXXot9- ya/) o y oXot^o-t <f>p€oi 0v€i, 
ov8c Ti otSc varjcrai a/xa irpd<r(rai fcoi 6ir[<r<r<o, 
OTTTTOi)^ oi irapd vriv(rt (tool fiaxeoiaT *A;(aa)i/* 

346^^ a>9 ^aro, IlaT/JoicXo? 8c ^tXo) iirerreiOeff eraipo), 
€ic 8* dyaye KkurCrj^ BpLcrrjiSa KaWnrdpijov, 
8a)ice 8* dyea/. roi 8* avrc? ittji/ irapd vrja^ 'A^^aceSi/, 
17 8* dcKova dfia Tolari yxnnj klq/. avrdp *Aj(cXX€V9 

; SaKpvaras erdpcop d^ap e£cro voa^i Xiacrdei^ 
"Seo ffvp €(f> aXo9 TToXt'^?, 6p6(t)v iir diretpova ttovtov • 
TToXXa 8c firp-pt ^(Xt) rjpijaaTO x^^P^^ opeyi/vs • 

fifjTep, iirei fi €TeK€^ ye fiivxn/ddSiov irep ioma, 
TLfiyjv nep [jlol o(f>eXkev *OXv)u.7rto9 eyyvaki^ai, 
Zcv9 v\jjL^pefieTri^ • 8* ov8€ fie tvtOov erwrci^. 

356 9j ydp fi *ATpetB7js, evpv Kpeuov ^Aya/iefivatv, 
rfTLfiTjcev • ekiov ydp ej^ct yepa^, avros dirov/oa?.*' 

0)9 ^aro SdKpv xeoiv, tov 8* c/cXvc Trori'ta iirfrrip» 
rjfievr) ev fievOeaaiv dX69 Tra/ad iraTpl yepovTt, 
KapTra\ifL(o^ 8* di/€8v 7roXt^9 dXo9 rjvr o/iixh^t 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK L 



IS 



/^360 #cat pa irdpoiff avrolo KaOc^ero BaKpv x^ovto^, 

X€tpi TC fill/ KaT€p€^€l/, CTTOS T €<f>aT €K T 6vd/Xa^€|/ * 

" T€Kvov, TL kKaCeis ; ri 8c crc if>p6/as iKero irevffos ; 
i^avSa, /iTj K€v0e poo), u/a etSofiep ifiifxo" 

rrfp he fiapv OT€vdr)(Q}V irpoaeifyri TrdSas cI)kv^ *A;(tXXcv9' 

365 " ourda • Ti rj Toi ravra IBvLjj TrdpT ayopevcj ; 
^^ofuff is ^^rjv, icprjv ttoXlp ^Heruovos, 
r^v 8c hierrpddoiiep re koI rjyoiiep ivOdSe irdvra. 
Kol ra fikv cv hda'aavro fiera ar^Ca-a/ vtc? *Aj^atali/, 
CK 8* ikov ^ArpetSji XpvoTjlSa KOLWiirdpnov* 

370 XpvoTis 8' avff lepevs c/caTTj^dXov 'AiroWcopos 
^X0€ 0oas iiTL pyjas ^A)(ai5ip ^oKKo^irojiPiap 
Xvaofiepos re ffvyarpa <f}€pa}p t aTrepeia'C dnoipa, 
OTcppaT €xo}P €P x^pavp iKTjjSoXov *AirdXXa)V09 
)(pv(r€<p dpa (TicqTrrpifi, /cat cXta-trcro irdpraq *A)((u^^» 

376 'AT/)€t8a 8^ pdkLora hvo), Kocpijrope Xa&p. 
€pff. aXXot pkp vdmes i7r€v<f)Tjp*r}(rap *A;(atol 
atScur^at 6* iepfja Kat ayXaa h€)(0ai anoipa • 
dXX* ovK 'ArpciSij *Ayap€ppoPL rjpSape 0vp^, 
dXXa KaK^s d<^tct, Kparepop 8* cttI pvOop ercXXcv. 
^ 380 ^oDop^epos 8' 6 y4p(ap irdXip ^x^^^ ' ^^"^ ^' 'AttoXXcuv 
euiapepov rjKovo'ep, inel pdXa ol <j^cXo9 '^cj', 
^KC 8* in ^ApyeLOLOTL KaKOP fiiXos • oi Be pv Xaol 
dpfjcKOP iTracroi/repoL, ra 8' cttoJ^^to KrjXa deoio 
ndpTTj OLPa oTparop evpvp ^Axai&p. dppi 8c pdpTis 

385 cS cl8a>9 dyopeve OeoirpoTTias eKdroLO. 

avTLK iyo) irp(oTos KeXopy/p Oeop IXdaKecrdat • 
*ATpeto)pa 8* erreira ^oXos XdjSep, au/ia 8' di/aora? 
^ctXiycrci' pvdop, o 8i) TcrcXccr/jLCj/os iarip. 
rrjp pep yap <rvp prjt dorj cXticoiTrcg 'Amatol 

390 €9 Xpv<rrjp vipTTOvciP, ayovai 8c 8o>pa dpaicn • 



14 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS A. 



Tijv 8c v4cv KkLatrfdep ejSav KijpvKe^ ayovres 
Kovprjv Bpiorfjo^, rrjv fiot hocav vfcs 'AxawSj^. 
dXXa av, ei Swaaai ye, ir€pC<r)(€o iraiZo^ eijos • 
ikOova OvXvfiirovSe Ata Xurat, ei irore hrj ri 

396 Tj €mi wm/a'as Kpahvrfv Aios rik koX epytf. 

iroXXaici yap ceo Trarpos ii/l fieyapotcnv aKovara 
ivxpfiemi^, or €(l>rj(r0a iceXau^e^t KpopioDVL 
oLTj ep adavaTOixrw dci/cca Xotyoi/ apHivai, 
OTFirore fiiv ^wSrj<r(u 'OXv/xttcoi rjOekov aXXot, 

400 "Hpri r '^Se JIo<r€LSd(ov koX IlaXXds *A^ijKiy. 

dXXd (TV TOP y ikdovcra, Bed, vTreXvcao Secr/iZv, 
Z-^ kKaToyx^ipov KoKecracr is fiaKpov '^OXv/iirov, 
OP Bpidpecjv Kokeovo'L 0€ol, avhpes 8e re irdvres 
AlyaiQiv • 6 yap avrt fiCjj o5 iraTpos diieCvmp • 

405 o9 pa wapd KpoPL<opi KaOi^ero icvSel yaCcop. 
TOP Kal vTTehuaap [idKapes deol ovSe t cSiyo'aj/. 
tUp pvp fivp fJLPijaraara irape^eo Kai Xa^c yovpcop, 
at K€p irct>9 ideXjjarLP cttI TpdeaaLP dpfj^ai, 
rov9 8c Kara irpvfipas tc kol dfi<l> dXa cXcrat *A}^aioik 

410 KTeLPOficpovs, LPa Trdirres iiravpoPTaL ^cwrtX'^o?, 
ypS 8c Kal ^ATpethrjs €vpif KpeCwp ^AyaixcfiPtop 
7]P aTr}p, o T apLcrrop A)(ai(t)p ovoep erL(r€P. 

TOP 8* rifieL^er hrena Qcrts Kara BdKpv ^ovaa • 
" & [lOL, r€KP0P ifiop, TL pv (T erp€(f>op aipd reKovara ; 

415 alff CK^Xc? trapd prfvalp dSdKpvTOS Kal dnijiKOP 

^(rdai, imi pv rot aTo-a [UPVpOd irep, ov ri fiaka 8ip. 
PVP 8* dfia r d)KVfiopos Kal oi^vpos nepl irdpTcop 
iirXeo • to) crc ^afc^ aicrg T€kop ip [leydpOKrvp* 
TovTo 8c Toc ipcovaa cttos Att TepniKepavptt) 

420 cT/x' avr>) ir/>o§ ^OXv/jlttoi/ dydppi(f>op, al Ke vi07jrau 
dXXd (TV /xci^ i^w KJjvcrt Trapijfiepos diKviropoio'iP 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK L 



lirjvi ^A.\avotaiv» irokefiov 8* anoTraveo irdfinaa^ • 
Z€V9 yap C9 *ilK€€U/ov fier afivfiova^ Aidtxyrrrjas 
X^^Co^ ^fiv 'ftt'Ta Satra, 0eol 8* o/ia iravre^ inovro • 
^426 ScoScKarj} 8c rot avrt? cXcvo-crat OvXvfiTrd^Sc, 

icat TOT circtTct rot cc/xt Ato9 ttoti x^^'^^iSare? 85, 
icai /A£y yowdao/ioA, Kai fiu/ ^ireiaea-dai otai.** 

a>9 a/oa ifxapijaaa dire^Tja-ero, top 8' cXtir* avroS 
}(a>6ii€i/ov Kwra dvyiov iv^dvoio ywcuKo^s 

430 rqv pa fivg Hkovto^ aTn)vpan^. avrap *08va'<rcv5 
€9 XpvoTjv Ikoj^g/ ayw/ ieprji/ iKaTo/Jifirjp. 
OL 8* OT€ 817 Xc/xo'o^ 7roXv^€P0€o^ iyyv^ Ikovto, 
IxTTia fiep oTeiXavTO, Ocaai/ 8' iu injt /leXalvg, 
iOTW 8* ioTo8dK27 TTcXacrai/ irporovouriv v(f)€vr€^ 

436 Kap^jraXiiKoSf Trjp 8' ct9 opfiop Trpocpeacap iperfiol^. 
cic 8* €wa9 i^akop, icara 8c irpyfipijo'i e^aap • 
6IC 0€ Kai avToi pavpop em pnqyfiipi uaKaacrf^, 
iK 8* eKaTOfifirp^ jSija-ap eK7}fi6k(p *AirdXXa>w • 
€K 8c Xpvaril^ P7)os vopronopou). 

440 rjjj' fx»€i^ eiretT* em ^(Ofiop ayosp Tto\vprt}fri^ *08v<rcr€V5 
vaTpl <f>L\(t) iv X^P^^ Tidei, Kai fiLP npo(r€€vrr€P • 
" & Xpvarj, irpo emi^^ep ava^ aphpoip *AyafiefiP(op 
iralhd T€ col ayc/xci/, ^oi^cp ff iep^p eKaTOfifiyp/ 
pe^ai vircp Aapao^p, o<f>p* iXaao/ieaOa apaicra, 
\/ 446 09 PVP 'ApyctouTi voXvoTOPa KTjhe* i<f>7jK€p** 
^ 0)^ eiiriiP ip x^P^^ Ttdei, 6 hk he^aTO ^^aijpon^ 

vavSa <f>CK7]p. rot 8' &Ka ieprfp iKaTo/MfiriP 
i^eirj^ eoTTja'ap evhfirjTOP mpi ^cofiop, 
X^p^t^o^VTo 8' hreiTa Kat ovXc^vra? avikopTO* 

460 TouTLP 8c XpvoTj^ /xcyaX* cv^cto X€t/9a5 dpaa^cip • 
" kXvOl ftcv, dpyvporo^, Xpvcrqp dfi<f>tp4firjKa^ 
KiWap rc Ca^erfP, TepiSoio re T^t apjiao'eis • 



16 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS A. 



TL/irjcra^ ljueu ifu, yJya 8* l\\fao \aov *K\ajL&v 

466 178' €Ti Kat wi' ftoi T08* imKpTjrjpov leXSoip • 
1781/ Aai^aourti^ aeticea Xoiyoi^ ifiwov^ 

a>9 e^ar* evxo/iei/os, tov 8* licXiie ^0^809 *AirdXXa»v. 
aura/0 eirci p* ev^avro Kot ouXo^vTa? irpo^aXoi^o, 
avipvo'av fskv irpSyroL koX iaffxi^av koX cSeipap, 

460 /irfpov^ T €^erap.ov Kara re KvicTQ iKakxnj/av 
St-TJTVX* TTOiiyo-ai^c^, €7r* avroii/ 8* wiioOdryfO'av. 
Kale 8* or^t^l^^ 6 yepo)v, cirt 8* aWona ohov 
Keifie • vcoi 8c irap* avroi' c^oi^ TrefindfioXa ^epKriv. 
avrap eTrel Kara firjpa Koir} Kai (nrXdyxya 7ra<rai/To, 

466 jxtoTvXXoi/ r apa raXXa Kal dfi<f> ofiekoto'iv eireipav, 
.Synrria'dv re 7repL<f>pa8e(o^, epvaamo re irdvra. 
avrap eirel navcravro irdvov rervKovro re Satra, 

aivwr , ovoe ri (rvfio^ eoevero oacro? ctcnj?. 
avrap eTrel ttoclo^ /cat eStyrvo? epov arro, 

470 Kovpoi fiep Kprjrrjpa^ eireoTeilfai^o iroroio, 

ydfirjo'ai^ 8' apa rraaiv enap^dfjia/oi Beirdeo'a'u^, 

iravyj/iepioL /jloXttq deov IkdaKovro, 
KoKov deiSovre^ irairjova, Kovpoi *A)(aL&v, 
fiekirovre^ eKdepyoi/ • o 8c <j>peva repirer aKOwav. 

476 Tjfio^ 8' iJeXto? icaTc8v /coi cm Kpe<f>as ^k0evp 
Sri rore Koifiija'avro napd irpvfivTjaia vrjo^. 
^[los 8' rjpiyeveia ^dirq poho8dKrv\os *Hc59, 
icat r&r erretr dvdyovro jMerd arparov evpw ^AxatZv * 
rotaiv 8* iKiievov ovpov let eKwepyo^ 'AttoXXoii/. 

,480 01 8* i<rrov (rh]<rairr, dj/d iaria \evKa ireraaa'av • 
ev 8* 0U/C/JL09 irprjcrev [lecov Iotlov, dfi<f>l 8c icv/xa 
(rreipjf Trop^vpeov /xcyaX' ta^c mjo? iovtrrfs • 
17 8' cdcci/ icara KVfia hiarrprjO'a'ova'a KiKevdov. 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK 1. 



17 



avrap imt p ikovto Kara arparov evpw *Axaioii/, 
486 vrja /xh/ oi yc fiekawav irr rfmipoio epvcraai^ 

wjfov irrl y^afLddoi<;, viro 8* epfiaTa fiaKpa Tajrucaaa^p 
avTol 8* ia-KiSpain'O Kara KXurtas tc i/ia^ t€. 
avrap o [lijvu vrivai irapijiiepo^ wKviropoiaiv, 

490 ovre WOT ct5 ayoprjv irtoKiarKero Kvhiweipav 

OVT€ WOT €5 WoXeflOP, okXa if>0lVV0€a'K€ (f>i\oi^ Krjp 

aii0L fih/€ov, woOiea-Ke 8* avnrjv tc TrrdXcftw T€. 

aAA ore orq p e/c toio ovcDOeKaTTj yever 17015, 
Kal t6t€ Srf wpo^ ''OXvfiwop urav $eol aicv ioPTe^ 

496 wavTt^ aifia, Zcv? 8* ^px^* Bertg 8* ov XrjOer €(f)eTii4(av 
iraioo? cov, aAA 77 y ai'covcrero icv/xa uaKao'aTis, 
Tjepii^ 8* apifirj fieyav ovpavop OvXufiwov t€. 
eSpc)^ 8* evpvowa KpoviSijp arep rjfiei/ov aXkojp 
aKpoTOTg Kopv<f)ji woXyheipdSo^ OiXuftiroco, 

wK) #cat pa wdpoiff^ avroio KaOi^ero, Kat yow(Ov 
(TKaiy • oe^iTepj) o ap vw ai/uepecoi/o^ eKovca 
yaa-aofkhrri wpoa-eeiwe Ata Kpovicava dvaKTa • 
" ZcS wdrep; ct ttotc 817 crc /jlct dOavdroioriv ovrf<ra 
rj €7rei cpyo), rdSc [loi Kpijrjvov ieXBc^p v 

i06 TLflTja-W [lOl vlov, 05 OiKUflOpcOTaTO^^ aXkoiP 

ewXer • drap /au' vw ye ava^ aj/Sp&p *Ayafiifiv(i}v 
Tfrip.'qa'ev • eXo^v yap €X€t yepa^, avro5 dwovpa^. 
aXXa arv wep fiw tlcov, *OXv/x7rtc firfTLera Zcv, 
To^pa 8* CTTt Tpcuccrcrc rt^et Kpdro^, o<f>p* ai/ *A^atol 
610 vtoi/ €/jLoi^ TLG'(0(ra/, ofpeKKoiO'w re € ti/xtj. 

o>5 ^aro • 7171' 8* ov rc wpoa'e<f>rj v€<l>€Xrjy€piTa Zev?, 
dXX* dK€€ov hrjv rjoTo. ©ert? 8* <09 rjtlfaro yowoii/, 
a>5 ^€T* iiiwe<f>wia, Kot eipero h^&repov aSrt? • 
** vrifiepres phf 817 /xot vwoaxto koX Kardi/eua-ovt 



18 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS A. 



515 Tj aTToein , eirei ov rot em oeos, ofpp ev eioto, 
oaaov iyo) [lera iraaip aTLfioTdrri deo^ elfii** 

TTjv 8c fiiy* 6)(dT]a'as irpoakifyr} v€<f>e\rjY€p€ra Zeus ' 
" 817 Xoiyia €fyy, ore fi ixOoBoTr^aai iifyqaeis 
*Hp|7, St ay fi ipidjjO'w ovtiheiois eneeo'O'iv. 
'\520 rf 8c /cat avrm [i aUl iv aOavdrouri deolcrw 

veucei, Kal re /xc ifyrjo-i l^ixO Tpolccra'ti/ dprjiy&i/. 
dXXa crv fikv vvv aSrt9 dTroorcxc, firj n vorja^ 
^Hfnj ' ifiot 8c K€ ravra /lekijcreTaA,, 6<f>pa TcXccro-oi. 
ct 8' dye TOt KeifyaXy KaravevcroiiajL, a<f>pa wenotdjjs • 
625 TovTO ydp ifieOa/ ye fier adavdroio'L fiiyiarov 
T€Kfio}p • ov yap ifibv TraKivdyperov ov8* dirarqkw 
ov8' areke&rrfTov, on Kev KeffyaXy Karavevcro}** 
7) Kai Kvauinaiv in o^pvcri pevae Kpovicov • 
d/ifipoaLaL 8* dpa ^airai iireppdKTavTO wafcros 
630 Kparo^ air dOaj/droLo, fiiyay 8* cXcXt^ci' '^OXv/ivov. 
T<o y 69 PovXeuaavTe hierfiayep • hrevra 
€19 dXa dXro fiaOelav air aiyXijePTOs *OXvfi7rov, 
Z6V9 oc COP Trpo9 o(oiia. ueoi o a/ia iravre^ apearw 
iSioip, (r<f)ov narpos evavriov • ov8c re? erXri 
636 fieivai iirep^o/ie/ov, dXX* avrioi earav anavres. 
a>9 o /JLCV cvda KaOe^er* int dpovov • ov8€ {iiv *Hpiy 
riyvovqo-ev ISovo**, ort oc arofL^pdaaaTo fiovXa^ 
dpyvpoTTetfl, ©crtg, Ovydrqp aXioio yepovro^. 
avTLKa KepToiiioia-i Ata KpovUova Trpocn)vha • 
^40 " Tt9 817 aS roc, 8oXo/xi7ra, ^caii/ (rvfi<f)pda-a-aTo fiavXds ; 
accc rot <f>CXop iarCi^, i/xev dirovoa^ip iovra, 
KpvTndhia <f>pouiovTa hiKa^efieu • ovSe tl nta [loi 
wpo^piov TirXrjKas elTreiv enro? orrt voija^s.** 

rrip 8* Tiiieifier^ errevra iran^p dvhpS>v rc ^coii/ rc • 
546 " ''Uprj, firj Srf irdmas c/xov9 cirtcXwco fivOovs 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK L 



19 



ctSi/creti/ • ;(aX€Trot rot arovr aK&)(<f nep iovajj. 
aXX* ov fiiv K e7rt€t/c€9 aKovifiei/, ov ris iweiTa 
ovte Oeciv rrporcpo^ rov y etcrerat ovt avOpdwanf • 
hp §€ K iya)v airdvevde Oe&v iOekcD/jn vofj(rai, 

560 p/q Tt crv ravra cicaora hieLpeo prfSe perdXXa** 
Tov 8* '{jp^eifieT incvra /SoUin^ ir6rrviaL "^llprj • 
aivorare Kpov£8r), irotov tov p,v0op ieiire^. 
KoX XiTjv ae irdpo^ y ovt* etpop^cu ovtc peraWo}, 
aXka /xaX* fvioyXos ra <f>pd^€ai„ 5xr<T i0ikn(r0a • 

565 vw 8* alvci^ SciSotica #cara <f>p€va, prj <re vapeiirg 
apyvpoirel^a 8ert9, OvydTr/p oXtbto yipovro^ • 
'^epn; ya/o crot y€ irapi^ero koX \dfie yowoiv. 
Ty cr oiQ) KaTav€V€rai in/jTvp^ov, co9 *A;(tXi7a 
ri/xijcrct?, oXcirct? 8^ iroXca^ cttI vrivalv *K)(aiS}v.** 
y 660 TTji^ 8* dirapeL^opevo^ irpoai^ v^^^Kyfy^pera Zcvs • 
" haipoviyf^ at€t /jl€i/ dt€at ov8€ <r€ Xtj^oi, 
irprj^ai 8* epirr]^ ov tl Bvinj<r €ai, aXX* aTro dvpjov 
pak\ov ipx)l ecreai • to 8€ rot #cat pCyiov eorat. 
ct 8* ouro) rovr* iariv, ipol /uieXXet ^tXoi^ e&at. 

666 dXX* afccbvo'a KdOrjao, ip^ 8* i'lrnr^id^o pvd(o, 

pr) vv rot ov ')(paia'p<aa'iv ocrot ^€0t €t(r' 'OXv/jltt^ 
Sxrcov iovff, ot€ k4v rot dairrovs xct/ja? €^ctco.** 

©9 €<l>aT, cSeurev Se fio&ins iroTPia "Upri, 
KaC p d/ccovcra Kadyjaro, i7nyvdp}jfa<ra ij^iKov Ktjp • 

670 &^67)a'av 8' di^d Soi/Lta Ato9 deot Ovpai/CcDPes * 
roto'ti/ 8* "Hc^atoTos K\vTOT€)(irrj^ ^PX dyopeveip, 
pyfrpi 4^y^XI '^^^ <f>ep<ov, KevKcAdvci) "Hpn * 

Srf Xotyta Cjpya rd8' ecro'erat, ov8* er* di/eicrd, 
€t 8^ €i/€ica dvT)T5>v ipiZaiveroi^ 

576 ei^ 8^ 0€ourL Ko\(^op ikawerov * ov86 rt 8atro9 
iarOk'^^ Srcrerat '^809, €7rct rd ;(€/)ctoi/a i^tK^. 



20 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS A. 



fiy/rpl 8' eyoi wapdifyriin, Koi airy irep voeovarg, 
irarpi ^iXa> iifi Ijpa <f>€p€LP Au, 6<f>pa firi aire 
veucei'Qcn wanjp, avp 8' 17/111/ 8arra rapd^y. 
€t TTcp yap K idikfjcrw 'OXv/xttio? aarepowrjrrf^ 

khidiv oTv^cXtf ai • 6 yap ttoXv <f>€pTaros iartv. 
aXXa <rv tov y hriecrcri Kaddirrecrdai, /JLoKaKolmv • 
avTLK eireiu iAao9 OAv/uwrio? ccrcrcTat 

a>9 ap' /cat au/at^a^ Bena^ d/x^ticvTreXXoi/ 

586 iirjrpl <f>Oifg iv x^^P^ riOei,, Kai /jlo/ wpocreeiirev • 
" rirkaOi, /JLrjrep c/itj, Kat dpdcr)(€o Kr/ho/JLonj nep, 
fi'q ere <f>ik7fv wep iovaav iv 6<f>daXfioicnv iSai/irai 
detvofievrjv • Tore 8' ov rt SinnjcroiiaL axyviievo^ nep 
'Xpauo'iJLelv • dpyaXeo^ yap 'OXv/attio? dvTv^ipecrdauL* 

690 ']787; yap /oi€ Kai aXXor' dX^^efievai fiefia^a 
pi\ffe 770805 TeraycDv diro fiijkov OecrnecioLo, 
irav 8* Tjiiap ^epoiiifv, d/ia 8' ^cXioi Karahvini 
Kdmrecrop ii/ Ayjfiva), oXtyo? 8' crt Ovfio^ ivfjep • 
o'^a fic Sti^tC5 dv8p€^ a(f)ap KOfiLcraPTo wecropra.** 
_ 695 a>9 ^dro, [leiSTicreu Oed, XevKcoXevo*: 'Hpiy, 
fieiSijcracra 8c 7rat8o9 ihe^aTo x^^P^ KvireXXop. 
avrap 6 rot? aXXoicrt ^€015 ivhi^ia nacra/ 
oipoxoei ykvKv vetcrap, dwo Kp7iT7}po<s d(f)vcrar(op. 
dcr/SeoTos 8' dp* ivcopro ycXa>9 fiaKdpecrcri Oeolcriv, 

600 a>9 tSov "H^atoToi/ 8ta 8cu/xaTa wourvvovra. 

/ a>9 TOTC /i€i/ irpoirap 'Jjfiap C9 •^c'Xtoi/ Karahvvra 
/ oati/vi^ ovoc rt uvfios eoevero oaiTos €L<rrjs, 
ov /lev ^opfiiyyo^ mpiKaXkeo^, rjv ex ^AnoXXtov, 
"MovcrdcDP 0*, at deiSov dfieifioyLevai oirX icaX^, 

605 avrap inel KareSv Xafiirpov <f)do<s TjeXioLO, 
oi fiev KaKKeiovre^ efiop oiKovhe eKaaro^, 
^X^ if<daT<o SZfia nepiKXirro^ dfi^vYvrjeiq 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK I. 



Zcv5 8c npo<s w Xej(09 rjC 'OXu/ittios axjTepoTrrjnj^, 
610 €pda 7rapo9 Koifiaff*, ore fiiv yXv^v? vwvos iKavoi • 
€vda KadevB* avafids, napa 8c xpva-odpovo^; ^Upuj. 



22 



OMUPOY lAIAAOS B. 



OMHPOT lAIAAOS B. 

Somnia Beta re/ert, coetum populique ratesque, 

* Beta the dream and synod cites ; 
And catalogfues the naval knights/ 

oueipo^. StoLTreipa. Boicireia ^ icaraXoyog ve&v. 

aXXot fUu pa 0€oC re Kai avepe^ imroKopvoTat 
evSov irawvxioi, Ata 8' ovk vijBviios virvo^, 
dXX* o ye fiepfirjpi^e Kara <f>peva, co9 'A^tX-^a 
TLfiTjfrg, oXeorg Be nokeas enl vqvaiv ^K^aiMV. 

6 rjBe 8c oi Kara dvfiou apLcrrrj ^ati/ero fiovXrj, 
7r€/Ai/rai hr *ArpetB^ ^Aya/iefivovi, ovKop oi/eipov • 
Kai fiLV (fxovija'a^ eirea irrepoevra Trpoayjvha* 
" PdaK Wi, oSXc oveipe, 0oa^ iiri vrja^ 'Aj^aiSi^ • 
ekdiiv €9 KKia-irfv ^Ayafiefipovo^ *ArpetSao 

10 noma /xaX' arpeKeo)^ dyopeveixev a>5 cttitcXXw. 
daiprj^at e Kekeve Kaprj KO/JLoa^vra^ 'Aj^atou? 
iravavhin • yap iccv ekoi ttoXu/ evpvdyviav 
TpdcDV • ov yap er d/A<^i9 'OXvftirta Bdfiar expvre^ 
dOavaroi ^pdXpvrai • erreyvaii^ev yap anavras 

15 "Hp?/ XLo-a-ofievrj, Tpdecra-i 8c 1078c* h^rjirrai.^* 

ft)9 ^dro, jS**? 8' dp* oveipo^t hrei rov [ivdov aKovo'CP* 
KapiraXCiim 8* LKave dod^ iwl vrjas ^KxaiS^v. 
ISrj 8* dp* CTT* *Arpe1&7iv ^ Ayafiefivova • 8^ KV)(avev 
evhovr €1/ KkKrin, irepi 8' diifipoo-io^ Keyyff virvos. 



HOMER'S ILUD, BOOK IL 



23 



20 crrrj 8' ap' virkp Ke^Xrj^ Nt^Xtjioi vti ioiKo^^ 

NcoTopt, TOP pa fiaXiGTa yep6vr(av r7 ^Ayafi^pw. 

fiuf ieixraifiG/o^ wpocre<fHOP€€ deio^ ov€ipo^ * 
" €v8€i9» 'Arpeo? vvk Sai^popo^ CTTTroSa/xoco • 
ov iravvv)(vov cvScu^ l3ov\ri<f>6pov avSpa, 

36 ^ Xoot r' eirvTeTpa^arax kcu rocraa /irC/xi^Xev. 
lori/ 8' ifiiOep ^w€^ 5#ca • Aco? 8c roc ayycXo? et/it, 
09 (rev ai/€v0€u ia^v /leya idjhercu rf8* iXeaCpeu 
0a}pfj^ai cr iKekevcre Kapi) KOfioanrra^ 'Axatovs 
navauSCg * vvv yap ko/ eXot9 noXiv evpvayvvav 

SO Tp(i<ov • ov yap er* dfi^t9 'OXv/iTria Bd/iaT expvre^ 
aOavaTOL ^pd^ovT<u « irreyvapAfta/ yap airavra^ 
^Hpi7 Xicraop^ivrf, Tpdecrcn 8c kt^8c* c<^irrat 
€K Ai09. dXXa GTV aya-Li/ ej^c ^pcort^ /i'>786 o-c Xi^fty 
alpetro}, cSr* ai' o-c p.€\uf>p(ov vnvo^ d^jy." 

86 &9 apa <l>(ovijcras dnefiijcrero, tw Be \m avrov 
rd <f>poP€ovT dva 0vpx>v a p ov rekeecOai e/xcXXov. 
^ yap o y aiprjcreLv Tlpidp^ov irokw yjfiari Kuvff^ 
vrjmo^, ovSc rd ^-ij, a pa Zcv? p^'qBero €pya • 
6ij<r€Lv yap er* e/xeXXei/ ctt* oXycd re aTova^w; rc 

40 TpoiCTL T€ KCU Aai/aoto't 8td Kparepd^ {xrpxi/a^. 
eypero o eg vnvov, ueiyj be fttv afi<pe)(yT ofKpTi. 
i^ero 8' 6p0a}0ek, fidkaKov 8' a/Bwe yyrS^va^ 
KoKov jrrjyaTeou, nepl Bk p^eya jSdXXcro <^dpo9 • 
iroo'O't 8' VTTO XtTrapourti^ iBqaaTo KoKd ireBiXa, 

46c£/i<^ 8* dp* cifioLO'iv jSakjero ^t<^o9 dpyvpcrqkw 
etXero 8c cndjirrpov waTpmov, d^0vTov aiei • 
<rw c^St^ icard i^a? ^A.\ai&v \a\Ko\irG^v(ov. 

*Hft)9 fto' pa 0ed wpocre/S'qa-eTo p^aKpov "OXvp^nov, 
Zfjvl ^019 ipeovcra Kat dXXot9 d0avaTOt^iv * 
^60 avrdp 6 KJipvKecrcn, \Lyvif>06yyoLa'i Kckevfrei^ 



24 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS B. 



icqpvararew ayopijvhe Kafyt) KOfi6(ovTas *A^(uovs, 
ci [lev iicripvcrcrov, rot 8' rfyeipovro fiaX &Ka, 
fiovXr/v he irpSyrov fieyadv/Kov t^€ yepovrcov 
HeoTopeg irapa vrfi TLvXoiyevdos fiaoriXTjo^. 
65 Tovs o yc ovyKokecra^ irvKivyfv '^prwero fiovkrjv 
" kXvtc, ^tXot. OeLo^ fioi iin/uvioi/ ^kOo/ oveipo^ 
afiPpocrirjv Slol vvicra, iidkurra 8k Neoropt Seoi 

arr} 8* ap' virep K€^aX'^9, Kai/ie wpo^ fivdov eemo^* 

60 ' €v86i9, *Arpio^ vtc hatx^povo^ hnrohafioio • 
ov )(/3i7 navvvj(Lov evSeiv I3ov\7i<f>6poi/ dpBpa, 
oJ Xaot t' iTrireTpd^arai kol rocrcra /xc/it/Xci^. 
i/w 8' ifiedei/ ^vi/e<i cjKa • Atos 86 rot ayycXo? et/itt, 
09 crcv avevdev icov fieya lajheraL rj8* iXeaipei. 

65 dcDpyj^ai <r CKcXevcrc fca/>T; KOfiotavrai; *A)((uov^ 
ir(W(Tvhiji ' vvv yap k€j/ cXot9 TrdXti^ evpvdyvLav 
TpcocDP • ov yap er dfi^ls 'OXv/iTTta Sco/iar €)(ovt€^ 
dddvaroi ^pdl^ovrai • iiriyvafixj^ei/ yap diravra^ 
*H/)77 Xtxra-ofiipT], Tpcoecra-L 8c 1078c' i(fyr)7rTai, 

70 cK A609. dXXa crv a^civ e)(€ ^pecriv.* &s 6 /ici/ etirw 
a!;(CT' dTroTrrdfiei/o^, ifie 8c yXvfci;9 vn^o^ di/rjKei/, 
dXX* dyer, at iccV ira>9 0(opij^ofi€v vfa9 *A;(atftJi/. 
wpwTa 8* cyo)!^ eTreciv ireiprjcoiiai, rj Oifii^s iarvp, 
Kal (l>€vyeLi/ crvv vrjvai ttoXukXtjicti iccXcvcrw • 

75 i5/xct9 8' aXXo^cz/ dXXo9 iprirueLv iireecro'iv,^* 

1) rot o y G>9 eiTTOiv Kar a/) c^cto, rowrt o at/earrj 
Hea-TODp, 09 /5a IIvXoio am^ 171^ rqfiadoePTO^ • 
o cr^ti' cv (f}p6P€<ov dyoptjcraTo Kal iiereeiirep • 
" & ^tXot, *Kpyei(t}v rjyrjrope^ r/Sk fiehopre^, 

80 ct /ici/ Tt9 Toi^ oveipov *K)(aiS)v aXXo9 epicrwa/, 
!/rcv8o9 icci/ ^aifiep koI voa'(l>L^oLiJi€0a /xdXXoi/ * 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK U. 



vw S' iSev 09 [idy dpL<rros 'A^^aiSi^ evxerai etvau 
dXX* oyer, at K€v 7ro>s dwfyq^oiiej/ via? 'AxaioivJ" 
a>9 apa <f>(oinj(ras ^ovXrj^s ^PX^ veecrOai, 

85 ot 8* inavdo'TTia'ap ireidovTO re iroifievL Xawv, 
a-KrjTTTovxoL jSacrtXiJc?. iirea-crevovTo 8c Xaot. 
-^VTC €^i/ca clcrt fiekuro'doyv dhivatov, 
irerprj^ ck y\a<f>vpri^ aiel viov ip^oiievdwv • 
fiarpvSov 8c irerovrai iir avdeaw elapivolciv • 

90 at fte/ T &^a dXt9 TTCTTOTTjarat, at 8c re cj'^a • 
a>9 t5v idvea TToXXa i/e&i/ diro Koi Kkiaidfav 
rjiovo^ irpoirdpoLOe fiadeiTj^ iaTL)(6€ovTO 
iXa86i^ €19 dyopyjv • /lerd 8c (r<f)L<rLv oo'cra Se^ijeLV 
orpvvovcr ievaL, Ato9 ayycXo9 • ot 8* dyepovro. 

95 rerprj^ei 8* dyopij, vtto 8c areva^L^ero yata 
Xaeii' t^oj^oiv, OfiaSos 8' -^i/. im/ea 8c (r(f)€as 
KrjpvKe^ fio6<avT€<; iprjruov, ct ttot' dim79 
(rxpiar, dKovcreiap 8c hioTpe^iaa^ ^aa-LKrjfov. 
arnovSy 8' cjcro Xao9, iprfrvdev 8c ica^ cS/)a9 
-'^^OO wavcrdfiei/OL KXayyrjs:. dpd 8c Kpeiiov 'Ayafiifivcov 

e<rrq cncfjirrpov €X(av • to /xci/ *^H^atcrT09 fcd/utc rev^v 
^H^atcrro9 ftcv 8a>icc Att Kpovi(OPL dpaKn, 
avrdp dpa Zcv9 SoJicc SiaKTopo) dpyei^ovrn • 
*E/)/itcta9 8c cti/a^ 8a>Kci/ IXcXoirt TrXrj^LTnrw, 
106 avrdp 6 avTC IT cXoi/r ScSk' 'Arpct, iroiyuivL \awv • 
'At/ocv9 8^ dvTjcrKtav iXiireu troXvapvi ^vifrrjjy 
avrdp 6 avre 0vcot* ^Aya/iepvovi XctTrc (fioprivai, 
TToXXyaiv vijcroKri, kojL ^Apye'C iravrl dvaxrcreiv. 
r£ o y ipeurdfiei/o^ cttc' ^ApyeioLcrL /lerrivha • 
110 " £ ^tXot 7jp<o€^ AavaoL, Oepdirovre^ '^Apjjo^, 
Zev^ fic /xeya Kpovt^r)^ drg o/dBrjo-e /Sapeij/, 
<rxerXto9, 09 7r/)ti^ /otci/ /lot virea^ero koI Karivevtrev 



26 



OMHPOY IAIAA02 B. 



^IXtoi' iKiripiravT evreCx^w anoveeaOaL, 

vvv Se KaK^p airdrqv fiovXevo'aTo, Kai fi€ Kekelki 

115 SvcKkea "Apyo^ iKia-Oai^ eirel iroKiv aiXecra \a6v. 
[ovTta irov Ail /xcXXct vnep/iepeL <f>Ckov di/ai» 
09 ^ noKXd(ov nokuop Karikvce Koifyrfpa 
rjS* ert Kat Xvcrci • rov yap Kpdro^ iarl fteytorov.] 
aiaxpop yap rdSc y iarl kcH iatroiiivoim irvdecrdai, 

120 fia^lf ovT<a TOLOphe Toaophe rc Xaoi^ 'Anatoli/ 
awpriKTOP TToXe/jiOP TroXe/xi^eti^ i^Se /ta^^crdai 
aphpdxTi iravporipoicri,, reXo9 S* 01; ttco rt iriffHunai^ 
€L wep yap k iOlXoi/jiep *Aj(au)t t€ Tp&e^ rc, 
opKia TTiora rafiovres, dpidfiridijfiepaA d/jL^fHOp 

125 T/3aic9 /lei/ Xe^acrdai, i(f>€OTLOL oa-croi camVp 
ij/ict9 8* C9 SeicaSa^ hiaKoo'iJiTjdeijjiep 'Aj(atot, 
Tpwcjv 8* avhpa eKaoroi ekoCfieda oipoxoeueu^t 
iroXXat ScKaSe? Scvotaro ou/o^ooto. 
Tocrcrop iyd ifyqiiL nXia^ 6/A/A€i/ai utas *Aj(cu5i^ 

130 TpdcDP, OL paiovcTL Kara irroKw. dXX' iwLKovpoi 
TToWecDP c#c TToXuov €y\iaiTakoi dvSpes ep^urw, 
ol /i€ /ot^ya irXa^ovcrt Kat ovk €t£<r* c^^Xoj/ra 
"iXtoi^ eKTripaax, iv paLO/ieuop moKUdpov* 
ipvia 8ri fiefidacri, Ato9 yueydXav ipiaxnol^ 

135 Kat S17 hovpa aiirqm P€cip Kal crtfdpra XeXvi/rai • 
at 8c TTOV riii€T€paC r aXoj(ot Kat .i^Trta rtKpa 
ctar' a/t iieydpoi^ woriSiyfiepa^, • a/x/oit 8c cpyov 
avTO)^ dKpdaPTOP, o5 ctvcKa 8evp* iKO/iea-da^ 
dXX' dyeff, co? ai/ cyo) cittoi, TT^id^fueda irdpr^^* 

140 <f>€vy<oiJL€P avp prjval f^CkiiP C9 Trar/otSa yaiav • 
ov ydp ert Tpovqp alpijaofiep evpvdyvuip.^ 

&9 ^dro, Totcrt 8€ Ovfiov evX arrjd^o'a'ip opiva^ 
Trdai fierd wXt/Ovp, ocol ov Povkfj^ iirdKOvaxLP^ 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK n. 



fCtm^A} 8' ayopff ifnj Kv/iara fioKpa daXcurcn^» 
146 TTOVTov ^iKapCovo * Ta fiei/ T ESpds re N0T09 T€ 
&pop €irat£a9 warpo^ Aio9 €#c ve^eKdxav. 
w 8* ore Kahj<rg Zi^vpo^ fiadv \rjwv ikdwp, 

019 ncur ayoprj Kun^uri, rot o aAoAijra) 

150 nja? cir* iaaevopro,, noSiop 8' vnepepde Kovvrf 
torar* aeipofihrq. rot 8* dXXTjXota-t kIXcvoi^ 
ameaOai pyfZv ^8* ikKefiev €69 oXa 8uiv, 
ovpov^ T i^eKadoApov • dvn7 ovpavov Ikgp 
OLKaSe Ufievfov • wo 8* ypeov epfiara mjS)!/. 

156 €v^a #ccj/ *ApY€ioiaiv viripfiopa vooto^ ^X^* 
ei firj ^AdyivaLrfv ^Rpyf irpo^ fivdov ccittcv • 
** & wowoi,, oiyid^^oto Ato9 r€K09, arpvrcSi^, 
ovroi 817 otKdi/8€, (f>Ckrjv €9 warpiSa yatai^p 
*Apyctbt <l>€v^ovTOLL CTT evpea vSrra OaXdcnnf^ ; 

160 #cd8 81 icei' evxoiXi7i/ npLdfio) koI TpcDcl XtTrotep 
^ApyeCijp 'EXcnyv, eii/cica ttoXXoI 'A^^ataJv 

Tpoiy anSkovTO, <f>i\rf^ aTro 7rarpC8oq avtj^* 
aXX' S^t Kwra \aov *A)(aLCt)v ^a\KO)(yr(ova}v, 
<rot9 aywols hri€<r<rw ipijrve <^o>ra cicaoroj^, 

165 /i7}8€ la i^a9 aXa8* IkKifieu dfi<l>L€KLcra-asJ'* 

&9 c<^ar*, ov8' anCdricre tfed, yXaviC6>7r69 ^Adijpjf^ 
firj Sc /car' OvXv/Xriroto Kapijvan^ at^acra, 
KapnaXCfim^ 8' ticai/€ ^00,9 eirl i/^a9 'A;(au(>i^. 
€S/3e^ eirctr* *08i;cr5a Atl /i^rw' drdXai^oi', 

170 €OT€6>T* • ov8* o y€ io;o9 evacrekfioio /x€Xau^9 
aTTTer, iirei /jllv ayo^ Kpa&iriv Kat dvfiov iKavG^. 
ayxpv 8* icrraiJiivrf irpocritfyrf yXavicawrt9 ^Adijinfj • 
" 8toy€V€9 AajepTidST), TroXv/iTj^ai/* *08v(r(rcv, 
ovr6> 81) otKdi/86, ^Ikqv C9 narpiSa yaiaug 



28 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS B. 



' Ka& hi K€v cy^oiX'^i^ YLpiAXfKa koI Tptocrl Xtirotrc 

€P TpoLji anoXovTO, ^1X779 ano irarp&o^ avq^. 
dXX' Wi vvv Kara kauov *A)(aiZv, iirfhi r ip{o€t, 
180 aois 8' dyai/ot9 iniea-aiv ip'qrve ^Srra licaoroi^, 
/Xrijoe ea i^a? aAao eXxepjo/ a/A<pi€Xt(rora9. 

jSr} d€€U^9 am Se ^awav /Sake • t^v hk KOfiuro'ep 
Ktjpv^ TStVpv/Sdrrj^ ^Waiajcno^, 

186 avro9 8' ^ArpetSeo) ^Ayaficfipovos avrCo^ i\do}v 
8efaTO ot crKjjTTTpw Trarpwiov, a<f>0Lrov atct* 
crw TO) cJSi; icara i^a9 'A;(a6£i^ ')(aKKox^Tciva}p* 

ov riva fiev /SamXrja Kal €^o\ov avhpa Kvx^Crf, 
TOP 8* dyavoi^ iTreea-aiv ipriTvcratTKe irapaard^ • 

190 " haipovi, ov cc €otic€ KaKov a>9 8ct8tcr<rccr^ae, 
dXX' auro9 re Kddy)<ro koX dXXov9 iS/jve Xcu>ii9. 
ov yd/) irta ord<^a oTo"^ 0609 W09 ^ArpeUovo^ • 
i/w /otci/ Treipdrcu, rd^a 8' iilrerac vZa9 'A^aeSv. 
€1/ fiov\jj 8' ov wdvT€s dKOVO'afiei/, olov ieiwep. 

195 /XT/ Ti ;)(oXG>crd/i€W9 pci^ Kafcoi^ vZd9 'A;)((u£i^. 
dvfio^ fiiyos iarl 8tor/06^609 ^acrtXTjo9, 
Ttfti7 8* cic Ato9 €OTt, (^iXei 8/ c firfriera Z€V9.** 

01^ 8' av hrjiiov dv8pa cSot pooan/rd r It^evpoit 
TOP crKijTrTp(o iXdcaCKev o/JLOKkijo'ao'Ke re /ivOifi • 
dr/3€/Xra9 '^cro icai dXX6>i/ fivOop aKove, 
ot ceo ^€pT€po( elcri, <rv 8' d7rroX€/A09 ^al di/aXict9» 
ovrc TTor* iroXe/io) IvapiOpxo^ ovr iv\ fiovXy, 
ov [lip no}^ irdpre^ fiao'ikeva'oiiQ/ epdaJh* 'Axatou 
ovic dyaOop irokoKOipapii) • et^ Koipapo^ eoTW, 

205 €19 ^acrtXcv9, ^ ISowcc Kpopov irdt9 dyKvkoyLrjr€^ 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK IL 



a>9 o ye Koipoj/itov SUm arparov • ot 8* ayopijvBe 
aSrt? inccrcrevovTo ve&v ano Koi KKiaidcDV 
VXV' <u? ore KVfia 7ro\v(f>\oC(TfioLo da\d(r(nr)<s 

210 atyiaXo! fieydkco fipefierat, crfiapayei 8c re ttovtos* 
aXXot fi€v p i^ovro, iprjTvdev 8c KaO" i8pa<; • 
SepaLTTj^ 8* €T6 /itovi/o9 a[jL€Tpo€7rri^ CKoXeJa, 
09 /o' eTTca <f>p€a'lv ^clv aKoo'iid re TroXXa re 27817, 
fidxjf, drap ov Kara K6crfiov, ipit^efiepaL ^ao-tXcvcriy, 

216 dXX* art ot ctcratro ycXottoj/ * A.pye.ioicriv 

cft/irCj/ai. at<rxwrro9 8€ aK>)/) vtto ^iXtoi^ Tjkdev • 
<I>o\ko^ hjp, ^(0X05 8* irepov iroSa • ro) 8c ot aJ/io) 
Kvprd), inl cTTTjdo^ (TWo^wKme • avrdp virepOev 
^0^09 ejyi' Kei^akrjv, i|rc8j^ 8' iironjvode Xd^prj* 

220 €)(tiiaro^ 8* *Aj(tX7^t /laXtoT* '^i' 178* '08vcr5t • 
Toi yap v€i»K€U<rK€. r&r avr ^ Kyap,4.\kvovi 8toi 
o^ca iccicXTjyais Xey* 6vct8ca • roi 8' dp ^Kyaioi 
iKTrdykw Koriomo, v€fiicr<rr)64v r hn dvfiS, 
avrdp o fiaKpd fio&v ^Aya/icfivopa peiKee /jlvOco • 
_^226 "*Arpet87i, rio 8^ aSr' CTTt/ic/uw^cat t78c ;(aTt^ct9 ; 
TrXctat rot ^aXicoO icXtcrtat, TroXXat 8c ywat/ccs 
curti/ m kKlctld^ i^aiperoi, a? rot *A;(atol 
iTp(tnL(rT(f hiBoiiei/, evr &v irrokUOpov iXco/iev. 
ert Kot ^vcrov C7rt8cv€at, oi' k4 rt? otcrct 

230 Tpcjojp iTnroSdficjv *IXtov vtb? drroLva, 
ov K€P iyo) STja'a<s dydyo) ^ aXXo9 'Aj^atSr • 
lyc yui/aiKa verjv, iva fiiayeaL iv ^tXonjrt, 
Tjv r avro9 aTrovoa^i Karta^eau ov fih/ €olk€p 
dpxov iovra KaKcov iTnfiaa-KCfJLev utas 'Axatoii'. 

285 & 7re7roi/C9, iccik* ikey^e, 'A)^att8c9, ovKer 'A^atoC 
orica8€ vcp <rw i^vcrl vecifieda, roi/h^ 8' lwfi€P 



50 OMHPOY lAIAAOS B. 

avTov Tpovg y4pa we(r(r€ii€v, 6<f>pa JSt^toi, 
7) pd tL ol XVH'^^^ TrpocrafJLVvofjLev rje Kal ovkI • 
09 Kal vvv 'A;(tX'^a, co {liy dfieCvopa (f>(OTa, 

240 TfTifi-qa-ev • ekcov yap ej(Ct yipa%, avro? awovpa^. 

aXKd fidii oifK 'Aj^tX-^t j(oXo9 ff^pecTLv, dXXa fieOnjiitav 
^ ya/) cu/, 'ArpctSij, wi/ vorara XwfiijcraLo*^ 

0)^ ffxxTo veuceLcov ^Ayafiefivova, mifiiva \aSiv, 
^epcrCrr)^. 8* oiica irapiaTaTo 8109 '08i;(ra'ci;9» 

245 icat /ot«/ vTTohpa ihiov ^aXcTT^ rjviiraTre fivOo) • 
*' SepcTLT aKpLTOfivde, Xtyv? ttc/) cwj' dyoprinj^f 
10^60, ft'>j8' €^cX* otb? ipL^e/ieuai fiaa-ik^aw. 
ov yap iyo) aeo (l>riiii ^ep^iorepov jSporop dXkov 
€fifi€vaL, ocrcroL dfi ^ArpetSr)^ viro "iXtoi^ ^XOov. 

260 T0> ovK ai/ )8acrtX7ja9 dvd arrofi ex<ov dyopevoi^, 

Kal a<f>iv oveihed re 7rpo(f)€poL<s, voarov re ^vXacrcroif. 
ovSe TL TTO) cra^a iS/iiei/ ottod^ carat, rdSe epya, 
fj €v ^€ KaKw^ voarijcroiJLev vle^ *A)(aL<av. 
[t^ vvv ^Arpethrf ^ Ayaiiipvovi, Troi/xei^i Xaaii/, 

255 riaai oveihilfiiv, ore ol /idXa TroXXa hihovcrLV 
rjptoef; AavaoL (rv 8c KcpTOfiecav dyopevei^J] 
dXX' ^K^OL ipio), TO 8e Kal TCTekecrfiivov Ibrat • 
el K ert a d^palvovTa Ki)(rjoroiiaL 019 vv irep a>8€, 
li7)K€T eneiT 'OSvo^t Kdprj cjiiolctu/ cttcwj, 

260 firjh^ eri TrfXefid^oio irarrip KeK\y)fikvo^ evqv^ 
ct fiT) iyd) (re Xafii^v diro fiev (f)Cka elfiaTa 8va'(o, 
yXatvav T rihe x}T(ava, ret t ai8a> d/x^t/caXv7rr€c> 
avTov he Kkaiovra 6oa<s etri vrja^ difytjca) 
7r€7rX7jya)9 dyoprjdev deiKecrcn TrXTjy^crtv.*' 

265 0)9 dp* e^y], (rK-qiTTpa) 8e ixeTd(l>pevov rjhe Kat o^fim 
irXrj^ev 6 8* iSv(o07), dakepov Sc ol eKweae Sa/cpv, 
0'ftai8if 8* alfiaToeo'ca iJLeTa<f>pevov e^VTraveoTTj 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK IL 



a-Krjmpov vno x/^vcrcou. 6 8* dp" ci^cro rdpfirja-ev rc, 
dXyTjcas 8\ d)(petov ihdiv, dirofiop^aTO SaKpv, 
270 oi 8c KoL axyviiG/oi Trep in avrw r/Sv ydkacraap • 

" & noTTOL, 817 /xvpt' '08v(rcrcu9 i(rd\d eopyev 
/8ovXa9 T* e^dpywv dyadd<s irokeyiov rc Kopvo-aw 
vvv 8c To8c ficy* apicrrov iv ^Kpyeioiaw ipe^ev, 

276 09 Toi' XoifiriTTjpa ineafioXop eax dyopdfov. 
ov O-qv fiiv iraku/ airrL^ avrja^i 0vfio^ dyrjjinop 
veiKeUiv fiacrikyja^ opeiheioi^ cVcccrcrti/.** 

&9 <f>da'(w Tf irXridv^, avd 8' 6 TrroXinopOo^ *Ohvcr(r€W 
eoTT] cncrjirrpop e)(a)v. napd 8c yXavKwm^ *A0ijvri 

280 elhopAvT) KrjpvKi criCDiraip Xaov dpcoyeip, 

a»9 afta ^ ot irpS>Toi re Kal vorarot vtc? ^K^aiiap 
pJvdop aKovo'eiap Kal iiri^pacrcraLaTo fiovXijp. 
o aif^LP iv (l)pop€CDP dyoprjcraro koX fiereevirep • 
" ^ATpetSri, pvp 87^ (rc, dpa^, iOekovo'LP *A;(aM)t 

286 nacTLv ikeyxLcrTOP dcfiepai /jLcpoTrecrcri fiporolo'ip, 
ovhe rot iKrekiovcrvp viroa^ecrLv, rjp wep vnearap 
€P0dh* €TL (TTeL)(ovT€^ dv* ^Apyeo^ iTnrofioroLo, 
"Ikiop iKTrepa-apT ivT€L)(€op dTropieadai • 
0I9 rc ydp rj 7rat8€9 peapot X^pai rc yvi/atKCS 

290 dXXi^Xotcrti' ohvpoPTaL olKovSe peeo-dai. 
^ fiTfp Koi TTOPO^ iaTiP dpiTidivra peecrOai. 
Kcl ydp Tt9 ff" €Pa [irjpa [lepcav diro rj^ aXd^oio 
dorji^aXaa cvp ptjI iroXv^vyo}, op nep dcXXat 
^ct/ACpiat etkecDO'CP opLPOficprj rc ddXacca' 

296 rj/up 8* ecparo^ core mpiTpomcop epLovros 

ipddSe fiiiiPOPTeo'cn. rqi ov pefieaiCofi 'A^atovs 
d(r)(aKdap irapd prjvat KopotPicrvp • dXXd /cat efiTrq^ 
olarxpop roi hrfpop rc ficpcip Kepeop rc pdeaOcu. 



32 



OMHPOY IAIAA02 B. 



T\fjT€, ^tXoi, Kttl fieCvar inl xpopov, offypa Ba&fiei^, 
/ 300 ^ er€w KaX;(a9 [lavTevercu Kot ovkL 

cS yap 817 ToSc iS/xei^ ci/t <f>p€crw, core 8c ndpre^ 
fidfyrvpoL, ov9 /x^ ic!}p€^ ifiap Oavdroio ^ipovaai • 
;(crt4a rc /cat Trpmc, , or €5 AuAtoa i/t/c? Axanav 
TfyepiOovTO, KaKa Hpidfi^ koI Tptocrl if>4povaai * 

306 y)fiei^ 8' d/oi^t Trept Kp-qvrjv lepov^ Kara ^(Ofioif^ 
ephofiep dOavdroim rekijecra'a^s cicaro/otjSa?, 
KaX'^ VTTO TrXaravLOTO), odev pea/ dyXaov v8(op, 
€uff i(f)dv7f fieya (rfjfia. SpdKODv ivi v&ra Sa(f>oiv6^, 
a-fiepSakeo^, top p avro9 'OXv/iTrio? ^dcocrSe, 

310 fia^fiov virat^as trpo^ pa irkaTdviarov opovaev. 
evOa 8' eaav arpovOolo veocraoi, vrjTria rcKpa, 
6^(0 iir aKpordrw, 7rera\ot9 v7ro7rc7my£rc9, 
o/cTcS, drap p^'^Trjp h/drr) rjv, rj T€K€ reKva. 
hfff o y€ TOV9 cXcct^a KarTjcrdie rerpiySyra^, 

315 ii7]T7ip 8* dfi(l>€7roTaTo oSvpofia/Ti <f)L\a reKva • 
T^i' 8' eXeXt^d/xo/o? irripvyo^ Xdfiev dp,i^ia)(yiav. 
avrap iml Kara tIkv €<f>ay€ arpovdoio koX avrrjVf 
rov [lev dpit;q\ov drjKev deo^, 09 irep €(f}'qv€i/ • 
Xdai/ yap fiiv €0r)K€ Kpopov irdt^ dyKv\ofnjT€(o • 

320 i7/utC69 8* coTaorc9 davfid^o/jiev olov irux^V' 
a>9 oSi/ 8€ti/d m\o)pa deoiv eiarrfXff €Karofi)8a9, 
KdX;(a9 8' avTLK ctrctra deoTTpOTr4(tn/ dy6pev€P • 
ViTTT* di/eo) iya/eaOe, Kdprj KOfi6(ovT€^ 'A;(atot ; 
']7fta' /i€i^ T08' €(f>rfve repa^ fidya /xTjTtcra Zei;9> 
^325 oxjfLiiov oxjfLTeXeaTov, oov kXco^ ov ttot oXeirat. 
0)9 0VT09 fcard rc/o'* e^ayc arpovdoio koX avhjp, 
6kt<o, drap liijrrip h/drri rjv, rj t€K€ riicva, 
0)9 I7ft6t9 roacravT erea 7no\efii^oyiev av0L, 
ToJ 8€icdro> 8^ TToXiP alprjaoiiG/ evpvdyviav* 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK II. 



330 K€ti/o9 tS? ayopeve • ra 817 vw ndi/Ta rcXctrat. 
aW dye fiCiJvere irdmes, ivKinjiiihe^ *K\aioL, 
avTov, €69 o icei^ aorv fieya UpLafioio iXcjfxQ/** 

a>9 eifKLT, *Apy€LOL 8c ftey* Jaxoi', aft<^i 8c inje; 
afiepSaXeov Kovdfirjcrav dvcrdvrcjv vn ^A.\(uwVb 

335 [iv9ov hr<uvrj<ravr€^ 'OSvcrcnJo? OeCoio, 

Totcrt 8c Kal fierieiire Tepijuio^ ImroTa Neartap • 
'* & iroTTOL, rj 87) iraxaiv ioiKore^ dyopdaaOe 
vyi7nd)(oi^, of? ov rt /icX.61 noXeiJL'qM ipya. 
Try Srj (TwOecriai rc ical opKta fiijaercu, rifiLV ; 

340 ci' TTV/ol 817 /SovXai T€ yepoCaTo [lijSed r dvhpZv 
airovhaX t dKprjroi koX he^iaC, ^9 inemOiia/ • 
avrw yap p* eniecfT ipiZaivo/Jiep, ov8c rt p^rlxo^ 
eupefiepai, hvi/dfieo'da, irokvv xpovop ivddB* e6m€^. ' 
^ArpetSrj, av 8' €0* a>5 trpli/ €X<^v dcrrcfw^ca fiovK^v 

846 dp)(€v ^ApyeioiCL Kara Kparepas vcfiiva^, 

rot K€v A^aicuv 
v6(r<f>Lv fiovXeuoxr, awci^ 8* ovk icro'eroL avrwp, 
rrplv '^Apyoo'S* Ighil, irpXv kolL At09 aiyioxoio 
yi/dfiei/cu ct rc ^€S8o9 viroo^cort?, ct rc Kat ovict. 
-5^60 ^/oil yap ovi' icara^^cvcrai vmpfievia Kpoviatpa 
17/Aart TO), arc mjvaiv iv wKvnopourw cfiau/op 
*Apyctot Tpcka-a-L <f>6pov Kat Krjpa ^ipovTeq, 
doTpdmon/ eTTiZe^i, ipaicifia cnjfiara (f}aiv(ov. 
rS iirj ri9 irpiv hteiyifiQia otKoi/8c i/ccorda«» 

365 7rp«/ riva Trap TpdcDV aXo^^cj KaroKoifLyfOrfVM^ 
riaaa-Oai 8* *EXci^9 opfi'jjfiard rc OTOpaxds rc. 
€t 8c r69 ^K-wayXoi? idiXei otKoi^c peeadav, 
airrk<r0(a pyfo^, ivaaekfioio /icXcui^9, 
oi^pa Trpoo"^ aXXcoi^ ddvarov kcX iroTfiop ivicwg* 

360 dXXa> di^a^, avro9 r* ^ /tif8co miOeo r dXX^ • 



84 



OMHPOY IAIAA02 B. 



ov rot airoPkifTOV ctto? €(rcr€T(u, orrt k€i^ ctTrca • 
KpLp" avBpa^ Kara <f>v\a, Kara <f>p'ijTpa^, ^Aydiicfivov, 
<f>pTjTpri <f)p7jTp7f<l>w oip^yy^ <l>vka 8c ^i;Xoc9- 

865 yv(o(rg iireiff o$ riyefiovwi/ KaKO^, 09 rc w XaZv, 
*ij8' 09 K* ia-dXo^ ^i/crt • icara ericas yap fiayiovrajL • 
yi/aJcrcat 8* icat 0€(Tir€<rvQ ttokiv ovk dXaTra^ct?, 
dj/hpcov KaKorriTi Kal a^pahvjj iroXefioio** 
TOP 8' dna/jLeL/Soiiej/o^ irpoaiifyrj Kpeimv *Ayafi€fip(ov • 

370 " ^ ^av aSr* dyop^ viKa^, yipca/, via? *Axatftii'. 
at ydp, ZcC rc irarep koX ^AdT/vairj koI "AwoWov, 
TotjovTOL 8cKa fioL Krvfi^pdhiJiOve^ cici/ ^A^auav • 
TO) ICC Ta;(* '^fivcreve ttoXl^ Uptdfioio aa/aKTo^, 
)(epalv Tffieripjjcrtv aXoScra rc nepOofiivri tc. 

375 dXXa /irOt atyto;(09 KpoviSrjs Zcv9 aXyc' cScofcci', 
09 /AC /xcr' aTTpijKTov^ cpiSas Kal peiKea fidXKei. 
Kat yap eyo^v 'A^tXcv? rc fia^crdiieff c&cica Kovprf^ 
dvTLfiCoLS iirieo'a'LV, cyo) 8* rjpx^^ ^oK^Traivfav • 
ct 8c TTOT* C9 yc fiiav fiovXevaofiep, ovk€t cTrctra 

380 Tpcocrli/ dydfiXTjaL^ KaKov eao-erai, ovS* rjfioLOv. 
vvv 8' epx^o'ff inl Seivpop, Iva ^vdywfiep ^Ap^a. 
€v [leu T19 86pv Ori^do'do), cv 8* dcTTrtSa 0icr0a), 
cv 8c Tt9 iTnTOKriv h^iirvov 8orcy cyfcv7ro8€0"o"«', 
cv 8c Tt9 dpiiaro^ dii<f>l^ lSi)P iroXifioLo /JLeheaOco, 

385 ol? Kc iravrjiiepioL crrvyep^ KpLvdfieff* *Ap7}L. 
ov yap 7rava'(o\7] yc iieriacrerai, ou8* rj^aioVf 
ct ft*^ cX^ovcra hiaKpiveei fievo^ dvhpSiv. 
Ihpwaei fiep rev Tekaficov dfi<f>l anqOecrcriv 
dcrmSo^ diJi(f)Lfip6T7j^, irepl 8' iyx'^i X^^P^ KafieZrai • 

890 lSp(0(T€l 8c rev tTTTTO? iv^OOP dpfia TLTaCpCDP. 

OP 8c K* cyoii/ dirdp€v0€ fidx^l^ iOiXoPra ponrjcroi 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK II. 



infivai^eu/ irapa rnival Kopdiviaiv^ ov ol enrctra 

ctis c^ar , Apyeioi oc fiey ia\ov, <o^ ore KVfia 

395 cLKrg i<f> vt/nyX^, arc Kivrjarj Ndros i\6(ov, 

Trpo/Skrjri, (TKoniXw • roi^ 8* ou Trorc tcviiara Xcwrci 
iramoiMv dveficov, or ai^ o'^' o'^a yiucoyrai, 
avoToine; 8* opcopTo KeBaadePTC^ Kara in/ag, 
Kairviaro'dv re /cara icXt(rtas, icai 8crin'OJ' iXopro. 
^>;400 aXXo5 8* aXXo) epc^c ^eoiv aUiya/erdcov, 

evxop^^vo^ ddvarov re ifyvyeip kcu fiQ>\ov '^Aprjo^. 
avrdp 6 fiovp iepevaeu dva^ dvSpcjv ^AyafxifiPQiv, 
iriopa TrePTaerrjpop, vmpfiepii Kpopicopi, 
KiKkqa-Kep 8c yipopras dpLCTrja^ Xlai/a^^atSi^, 

406 NcoTopa fi€P TrpfOTLO'Ta Koi ^iSofiepyja dpaKra, 
avrdp €ir€iT Alapre 8i;a) kolL TvSco? vtdi/, 
cicTOv 8' avT 'OSvcr^a, Ail fiTjrLP drdkaPTOP. 
avTOfiaTO^ 8c oi ^X^c ^o^i' dyado^ Mepekao^ • 
^8€C yap Kara dvfiop oSeX^eop a>5 inrop^iro. 

410 jSoOv Sc Trepia-rrjardp re Kal ouXoxv^a? di/cXoi^o, 
7010-11^ 8* evxofxepo^ [iere<fyri Kpeuap ^Ayafiifipcop • 
" ZcS Kv8t(rrc /xeytOTc, K€kaLpe<f>€^, aidept paioiP, 
[iri TTpiP in 'qcXcop hvpai, kol cttI Kpe^as iXdelp, 
TTpiP /xc Kara irprqpk^ )8aXc€tv Xlpia/moto fiikadpop 

415 at^aXdei^, irprja'ai 8e irvpo^ hrjioLO dvperpa, 
^EKTopeop 8c x}*r&pa irepi (rrrjO^aro'i 8at£at 
\a\K^ poyyakeop • ttoXcc? 8* a/jt<^* avroi/ crai/oot 
7rp7jP€€^ €P KOpirjorLP o8a^ Xa^otaro yatai/.** 

a>9 ci^ar , ov8* a/oa ttco oi iTreKpalatPC Kpopiiop, 

420 dXX* o yc 8c/cro juie/ t/)d, ttopop 8* dXiaoroj/ o<f)eXK€P, 
avrdp irrei p €v$apro Koi ovXoxvra? 7rpofid\opro» 
avepvcap [ih/ irporra Kot ccr<^afw #cal c8ct/oav. 



36 



OMHPOY IAIAA02 B. 



/iTjpov^ T i^erafiop Kara re Kvitrg iKoKv^av, 
hinTv\a noLijaravTe^, in avr&v 8' diiiodirrja-aof. 
:\ 426 Kai ra fih/ A/> (r)(!X,ria'w a^vWoiciv Kar^Kaiw, 

G"jfkayyya 8' ap d/xTTCtpaiArc? vireipexov *H<^aurroto. 
avTap eircl Kara [irjpa Karj kcX (nrkayyva Tracrai/ro, 
/jtwrrvXXw t apa rSXKa k<u afi^* oPekouriv Imipavt 
wrrvqardv re mpLifypaSca)^, ipvaroarro re irdvra. 

430 avrap inel navo'avTo irovov rervKovro re Satra, 
Saipwr, oihi ri Ovfio^ ihoiero 8atro? citn;?. 
avrap incl 7ro(rto9 koI i^rirvo^ c£ €pov hno^ 
T0C5 apa fiv6<ov ^px^ TepijvLos Imrora Ncorop • 
** ^ArpetBrj Kv8to'r€, az^of dvSpwv 'Aydfiefjivov, 

436 firiKeTL vvv hrjff av9i \eyci[ie6a, p/qhe ri hnqpov 
dfiPaWco/jLeda ipyov, o Zrj ^cos eyyvaXi^ci. 
dXX' aye, KijpvKe^ fikv *KxaMv ;(a\/co;(tTa)i/aii/ 
Xaoi/ KTipva-a-ovTC^ dyeipovTKov Kara vrja^, 
i7/jL€t9 8* aOpooi SSc icard crrparov evpvv *Aj(ai5v 

440 iofia/, o(f}pa K€ daatrov iy€tpo[i€i/ o^v '^Apyja** 

a»9 e(f}aTy ovS* diridrjo'ep ava^ avhp&v * Ayafie/iviai/ * 
avriKa KijpvKeara'L Xiyv^doyyoio'i KeXevaei/ 
KTqpvao'eiv noXe/iovSe Kaprj KOfxocDvra^ 'Aj^atov?. 
oi fih/ iK7jpv(Tcrov, rol 8* i/yeipovro fiaX Zko. 

446 ol 8* d[i^* *Arpeta)pa 8toT/oc^€C9 Paaikrje^ 
Owjov Kplvovrt^y fiera 8c yXau/cwTTi? ^AdTjvrj, 
atytS' exova ipirLfiop, dyrfpaov dOavanqv T€ • 
T179 c/caroi' dwavoi irayxpyceoL rjepeOovrai, 
irdvre^ ivirkeKee^;, eKarofJiPoio^ 8e eKoaros • 

460 (Tvv rjj iTai<^d(rcroucra 8t€O"cn;T0 Xaoi' ^Ax^^^v 
6rpvvov(T leuai • cV 8c adevo^ Zpaev iKdoTfp 
KapSiT), akkT/Krov noXefiL^eiv iy8c fidx^arOat. 
rolari 8* d(f)ap ttoXc/ao? yXvKLon/ yei/er 77c vi^cOax 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK H. 

h vr]V(rl yXcw^v/o^crt ^iXrjv C9 irarp&a yaiav. 

455 ^vr€ TTV/)' atS7;Xoi/ €7rt<^Xey€t aarirerov vKrjv 
ovpeos ip Kopvif}'^^, eKaOeu Be rc ^au/erat axryrj, 
&<; T&p ip^ofi4v(t}v amo ^oKkov Oecrireariou) 
alykrj 7raiJi<f>av6(aa'a 8l aidipo^ ovpavov Xk€u. . 
tS)v 8', (S9 r* oppiOcDP Trererjjpwp edpea iroXXa, 

460 -^Tjy&u rj yepdpdiP ri kvkpcop SovXi^oScipo)!', 
*Aoria) €1/ \eiiiZpiy KavoTpiov a[i<f>l peedpa, 
Q/OoL /cat €p6ai rroT&PTai ayaW6p*€Pa vrepvyeo'a'ip, 
KXayyrjSop TrpoKadil^oPTiap, aiiapayei Se t€ Xei/Kop, 
T&p edpea TroXXa pe&p ano koX KXiaicicDP 

466 c9 mStop npox^oPTo l,Kafidp8piOP • avrap vno ')(^ct)v 
crfiepBdkcop Kopdfii^e ttoSon/ cpvrfiv T€ ical lirTrdiP. 
iarap S' Xei/jioiri ^Kafiaphpiff dpdeiioePTL 
[ivpioi., oaca rc (^vXXa icai apdea yCyperai &py* 
ijvrc fxvLda>p a&ipdxop iOpea TroXXa, 

470 at rc Kara (rTaOyLOP noiiipjjiop 'qXdo'Kova'VP 
cip-Q €P clapurQ, ore re yXayos dyyea Scvet, 
Toao'oi eni Tpdearo'L Kdpr) Ko/iooDPTes 'Amatol 
€P TreSio) laraPTo hiappcuaai fiefiaSyre^. 

8*, 0I9 r' atTToXta irXarc* atycSi/ atirdXot opBpe^ 
y476 peta BiaKpiPoxrip, inei kc popja [iiyectxrip, . 
W9 Toi;9 yf/ejiopei hieKOcrfieop €p6a /cat e/^a 
vcTfiCpTjph* Upcu, fiera 8c KpeUop *AyafX€iiP(OP, 
o/x/xara /cat Ke^akriP t/c€Xo9 Att TepTrucepavpo), 
*A/)€t 86 l^wpy/p, crreppop 8c no(rct8aa)vt. 

480 -^rc )8ov9 dyiXij^i /xey' e^o^os eirXero ndprcop 

Ta5/)09 • 6 ya/> rc fioea-CL /xcraTrpcTTCt iypopLijrQO'iv • 
rotbi' a/>* *ATp€t8rjP OrjKe Zevs rjiJiaTi, /ccti/^, 
iKTrperre iv iroXXoc(rt /cat e^o\op rfpdea'O'iV' 



38 



OMHPOY 1AIAA02 B. 



CATALOGUE OF THE SHIPS. 

iairere vvv [iol, /xovcrat, 'OXu/tTria hd/iar exovcat, 
486 vfieLs yap deal core, Trdpeare re tare re ndvra, 
i7/jL€t9 8c fc\co9 olov OLKovofiei/ ovSe TL iSfjia/, 
OL TLV€^ '^€fi6v€^ Aava&v Kal Kolpavoi ^(rav. 
irkyjOvv 8' ovK av iyo) fivO'qcTOiiai ou8' 6voinjva>, 
ovo €1 /jtot 0€#ca ficp yK(t)<r(TaL oeKa oc oTOfiar etcv, 
490 <^a>i;7) 8' appT/KTOS, xoKk^ov Se /lot ^ro/o o/cn;, 
€1 /X17 *0\i;/jL7na8c9 fiovaai, A105 atytoj^oto 
dvyarepe^, liviq<Taiaff ocroi vtto *lXtoi/ '^X^oi'. 
a/>xo^5 av ipeco vrjd^ re Trponda-a^. 

495 'A/o/ceo-tXaos re TlpodoT/jvcop re KXovlo^ t€, 
ot ^ ^TpLTjv evifiovTo koI AvXi8a irerprjeo'a'av 
^X^^^^ '^^ S/fwXoj' re TrohjKvrjfiop t 'Ereeovou, 
©ccTTreiw Tpaidi/ re #cat evpvxopov MvKaXrjo'a'op, 
OL T dfKf)* "^Apfi ivefjiOVTO koX 'EXkiaiov koL 'E/ov^pa?, 

600 01 T *¥XeS)v eixov 778' ''TXt/j/ koX JlereZva, 
*£lKaker)v Mc8€ft)i/a r*, ivKTifiei/ov TnokUdpov, 
Ka>7ra9 Evrprja-lv re TToXvrpijpcjE/d re %i(rfir}v, 
ot T€ Kopcopetav kol iroirjevd' * PiXiaprov, 
01 re nXaratw exov -^8' ot TXlo'CLvra vefiovro, 

606 ot ^ *T7ro^7j/8a9 ct^oi', evKrlfJievov nrokleOpoi/, 
^OyXyicTTov ff lepov, Jloa-L^njiov dyXaop aXo"09, 
ot re no\voTd<f)v\ov '^Apvrji/ exov, ot re MiSeiav 
Ntcrw r€ ^aderjv ^AvOiq^ova r eaxaTococap. 
T&v iiev rrepTrjKovra vee^ klov, ev he eKdcrrg 

ilO Kovpoi BotwrSi^ eKarov koX eiKoari ^aivov. 

ot 8' *Ao'7rX7;Soi/a vaiov t8* *Opxofievop M-LPvetov, 
rZv ^px 'Aa/caXa^o? Kal *Id\fxepos, vies '^Aprjos, 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK IL 



39 



OV5 TeK€i/ 'AoTvoxyi 8o/i^ *Awo/)os 'A^€t8ao, 
irapdivo^ alSoiTj, vnep<0L0V elaai/afiaa'a, 

615*A/)7/t Kparep^* 6 8c oi irapeke^aro XdOp'g. 
Tot9 8k rpirjKovTa y\a(f)vpai v€€9 iar^xocDvro. 

avrap ^ounjcDV 2x€8tos /cat *E7rtcrr/oo<^o9 ^px^^» 
vlc€9 *l<f)(Tov fieyaOvfiov Nai;y8oXt8ao, 
ot Kvndpia'a'ov €\ov JlvOwvd re Trerpiqecra'av 

620 Kpladi/ T€ tfiLdiy^v kol AavXiSa zeal Ilai^oTr^a, 
oi r* *Apefi(op€Lav koX *TdfX7rokLv dfi(f)ev€fiovTo, 
oi T dpa nap irorafiov Kr)(f)La'op Stoi^ &aioi/« 
ot TC AtXataz/ cxoi' Trriyjf^ cWt KT^^tcroto • 
Tot9 8* a/jta Tecro'apdKOjrra /xeXatmt j^€9 enovro. 

526 ot /xej/ ^(OKTjiop (TTtj^a? tcrracrai' dii(f}ienovT€^, 
BouoTcjp 8* ciiTrXy/v in dpiorepd O^aprjO'a'ovro, 
AoKpS)v 8* riyefiopevev 'OtX-^og ra^v? Ata9> 
lietcjp, ov ri t6<to^ ye oco^ TcXa/xcSi/to? Ata9, 
dXXa iroXu [leitop • 6Xtyo9 /t€v e>;i/, Xipodcopjj^, 

530 €Y)(€vrj 8' iK€KaoTo Tlap€XK.7jpa^ kol *A)(aiov^ ' 
ot Kvpou T Ipip^oPT ^Onoevrd tc KaXXtapoi^ re 
B^O'o-ai' T€ ^Kdp(fyr)P re Kal Avy€ta9 iparetpa^ 
Tdp<f>riP TC ^poPLOP T€ Boay/otov d/x,(^t peedpa. 
TO) 8' a/jta TecrcapdKovTa fieXaipat pyje^ inoPTo 

536 AoKpwp, ot paiovcL nepiqp leprjs *Ev^olr]s, 

ot 8* 'EvySotai' fiepea npeiopre^ "A^apre^, 
XaXict8a T* EipcTpidp re nokvo'rdi^vkop 6^ 'lortatai^ 
YirjpipOop T e^aXop Atov t* atTrv nroXieOpop, 
ot TC KdpvoTOP exop "^8* ot ^Tvpa paterdaaKOP, 

640 tSv aS^ Tfyeiiopev 'E\e(}>T]P(op, 0^09 '^Aprjo^, 
XakKcoBopTLdSri^, [leyaO-uficop dpxp^ ^AfidpTiOP. 
TftI 8* d/ut* *Ay8ai^c9 enopTO dooi, omdep koii6q}pt€S» 
ai)(fi7iTai, {lefiaSne^ opeKT^atp /JLektyo'VP 



OMHPOY 1AIAA02 B. 



646 8' dfia reo'orapdKovTa /xeXcui/at vrj€^ inovro. 

ot 8' dp* *A6ijvas el^ov, ivKTLfia/ov irTokUdpov, 
hrjiiov ^EpexOrjo^ fieyaKijTopo^, op ttot ^kdiqvyf 
Opeijfe, Ato5 dvydrrjp, t€K€ 8c ^€(8ai/)09 dpovpa, 
#caS 8* iv *A07jpji^ etaeu, a/ irvovi vrj^ • 

660 ivOa 8c fXLP ravpoKri kol dpveiot^ iKdovrai 
KovpoL ^Ad-qvaUov mpireWofiii/iav h/iavrSn/ • 
rwv avff 7jy€fi6v€v ulos IIctcwo MQ/ca^ci;?. 
t£ 8* ou TTco Tts o/jiOLO^ imx^ov^'OS yev€T dv^p 
Koafiyjaai tTnrov? tc /cal dvipa^ diririhwTw; • 

665 Necrrw/o 0T09 cpi^cj' • 6 ya/o npoya/carepos '^€u. 
TO) 8* a/uta TTGmjKovTa fieXau/at vrje^ enovTo, 

Ata5 8' Ik ^aXaixiPo^ dyev 8voicai8c/ca K^a9. 
[arrjo'e 8' aycoi/ ^Kdrjvaioiv IcrTOLPTO <^aXayy€S.] 

ot 8' ''Apyos T eixop Tipvvdd tc Tct;(io€<r<rav, 
560 ^EpfiLOprjv *A(rii/Tjv tc, Padvp Kara koKttov ixovo'as, 
Tpoit,7jv* 'Riovas TC /cat d/xTrcXdcrr* *E7rt8av/)oj', 
ot T €)(op Atytvai/ MdarjTd tc Kovpoi 'A^otoii/. 
TcSj/ aS^ lyyc/jLorcuc ySoi^i/ dya^os AiofJLTjSrj^ 
Kol ^6epeKo<;, Kanavrjos dya/cXctToS <^tXo5 vto5. 
565 Tourt 8' d/jt* Ev/)vaXo9 rpLraro^ klg/, iKroOeo^ (l>(o^» 
MrjKiarTfjo^ vto? TaXatoi/t8ao di^a/cTO?. 
avfiTrdvTWP 8* iJyctTo ^0171^ dya^o? Ato/x7^87}9* 
Toto"t 8* djtt* 6y8a)Koi^a /jicXati/at j^c9 iwopTo. 
ot 8€ Mu/oyi/a? ctxor, evKrifi^pop TTTokUdpop, 
570 d(f)peL6p TC Koptvdov ivKTifiepa^ tc KXcoiz/dg, 
'O/oj/ctds T* epejiopTO ^ApaiOvperjP r ipaTeuprjv 
KOL XtKv&p, 50* dp* ''ASprjOTO^ irpch* c/jt/SacrtXcvcif, 
ot ^ ^TTrepnrjO'vqp tc icat alrreLi^p Topoccra'ap 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK JL 

UeXKrjvTjv r ctxov, 178* Atytoi' aiitl>€j/€iioi^o 

575 AlytaXov r ava irdma kol afi^* ^JSXiKrjv evpclap, 
T&p eKaTov vYfwv ^px^ Kp€L(ov * Ayafie/JLVCDV 
'Ar/oct87j5. a/jta roJ ye noXv irXcicrrot kol apiaroi 
Xaol hrovT • Iv 8* avro? €8i;a'€ro veopowa j^aX/coj/ 
#a;8ida>i', Traaiv Se fieTcnpenep y^pdeaaru/, 

580 ovv€K apLO'Tos er/v, ttoXv 8€ ttXciotov? aye Xaov?. 
ot 8' cT^oj' Koikrjv AaKeSaifiopa Knqro^e<T(r<w, 
^apiv T€ ^TrdpTTjv rc TroKvrprjpaxi/a re Mecairiv, 
Bpvcreid^ r iue/iovTo kol Avyeta? c/oarcii/as, 
ot r' a/)* 'A/jtvicXa? cTj^Oi/ ''EX05 t, €(f)aXov TnokUdpoVt 

686 ot T€ Aacu^ clj^oj' -^8* OiTvkov aiix^€i/e[iovTo, 
T(op ot d8€X<^€69 ^px^> fiorjp dyado^ Mevikao^, 
i^TjKovra v€cjp • dwdrepOe 86 Oioprjaro'ovTO. 
iv 8* avro5 /ct€i/ ^crt TrpodvfiLTjari "TrenoiOeo^, 
orpvpoiP TToXefxopSe • [idkurra Se lcto 6vfx^ 

690 rlaaa-dax *EXa/7y9 o/o/jLTj/jtara re o"roi/a;^a9 tc. 

ot 8€ IT vXoi/ T* ipifioPTO KoX ^Ap'qpTjp ipareipriv 

KOL SpVOP, 'AX<^€tOtO TTOpOP, KoX ivKTLTOP AtTTV, 

icat Kv7rapL(r(nj€PTa kol *Afi(l)LyeP€Lap €Paiop, 

KOL UreXeop kol ''EXo? koI £i(opLOP, ipOa rc fiovtrat 

596 dpTOfiepai Sdjivpip top Sprj^Ka Travcrap doiBij^, 
Ol^aKvqOep iopra irap* "Evpyrov Ot^aXf^os • 
arevTO yap ev^6p.epo^ PLKTjareiiep, ct mp ap avral 
fiovaai deiSotep, Kovpai Ato5 atytdj^oto • 
ott 8€ ^6kcti<Tdji€P(u inqpop 64(rap, avrdp doiSriP 

600 OeoTrecCriP d^ikoPTO koX iKkeXaOop KLdapiarvp* 
T&p avff r/ye/jiopeve TepijpLo^ Imrora Ncbrcop, 
ro> 8* IpeprjKOpra yka^vpaX pee^ ioTL)(6a)PT0. 

ot 8* €)(OP * ApKahiTjP VTTO KyW-qPT)^ opos atTTv, 
AiwuTioP napd rviifiop, «/' dpepes dy^i/iaxqTai, 



42 



OMHPOY 1AIAA02 B. 



605 ot ^ei/eov T hfifiovro koX ^Op^o/Jiei^ov ttoXv/jlijXov 
^ViTTYfv TC XTparLrp/ t€ koX Tji/efioeaa'av ^EpCcriTrjv, 
/cat Teyerjv elxpu Kai yiavriveqv iparewijp, 
STVfi<fyri\6p T elxov kol IlappacrLrjP ive/xopro, 
tS>v ^PX *A.yKaLOLO ndi^, Kpeicov *Aya7rijvo)p, 

310 k^TjKovTa vewv • nokees 8' ii/ vqi iKaarn 

*ApKa8€S avSpe^ efiaivop, iTnardfjiei/oi noXeiii^eLP. 
avToq yap (r<f)Lv i8S)K€u ava^ avhpS)v ^Ayafiefipcov 
vYja<; ivaraeXfiov^ mpdav cttI olvoira Tromov, 
'Ar/o€t8i79, CTTCi ov cr^t dakdao'ia epya ficfiijXeLP. 

616 oS 8* apa BovTrpdcrLOV re koI *HXt8a hlai/ euau)P, 
oaraov i^* ^Tpfiivrj Kal Mvpai^po^; i(r)(ar6(tiO'a 
TreTprf t ^QXa/vq koX *AXcto"toj' ci^ros iepyeu, 
T(op aS reaarape^ dp^oi eaav, SeKa 8* aa/8pl iKdano 
K^€S enovro doai, ttoXccs 8' ^fjifiaivov 'Ettcioi. 

620 tS)V fiev dp* * Afji(f>Lfiaxo^ Kai &d\mo^ rjyiqG'dard'qv, 
vfcs o fiep Kredrov 6 8' ap* EvpvTov, ^AKTopitove • 
T&v 8* *A/xa/)iry/ccffi7j9 "^PX^* Kparepo^ AL<&pr)^ • 
T(ov 8c rerdprtav ^px^ Tlokv^^ivo^ Oeoeihijf;, 
vio^ *Aya(r9€P€o% AvyT)idhao di/aKTos* 

625 ot 8* €K AovXt;(toio *Ext^d(ov 0* iepdcov 
vyjarcjv, at vaiovo-i vcprfv aXo?, *HXt8o5 aj/ra, 
Tojp add* rjyefjLOPeve Meyrjs, drdXapTo^ '^Aprju, 
^XetSyj^, OP TiKTe huf^iko^ hnrora 4>i;Xeus, 
09 iTore AovXix^opS" dnepda-a'aTo rrarpi ^oXco^ct?. 

630 8* a/jta TeacapdKOPTa fiekaipai py)€.^ iwovro, 

avTap *08vo-o"cu9 -^yc Kc^aXX-i^i/a? fieyaOvfiov^, 
ot ^WdKTjP elxop Kal ^yjpiTOP elvocriKfyvWop, 
/cat KpoKvXcL €P€fioPTo Kal AtytXtTra Tpr)x^^'^» 
ot rc ZdKVpOop ix^^ V^* ^* ^d/xop dfi<l}epefjiOPTo, 

635 ot r' Tjireipop ^op ^S* dpmripaia pc/jlopto. 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK 11. 

tS)v fih/ *08vo'(rcv9 ^pX^> iiyjrLv draXai/ros, 
to) 8* a/jta K^€5 irrovTo SvcoSe^a iiiKTOTrdprjoi. 

AlroikSiv 8* ijyetro 0da5, *Av8paLfiopos vio^, 
oi UXevpwp* €i/€fiovTo Koi *Il\cj/oi/ '^8€ Tlvkijvriv 
640 XaXfci8a T* dy;(ta\oj/ KaXvScSi/ct re Trerprjeartrav • 

ovV ap €T avro5 irjv, Save 8c ^avOo^ Mekeaypo^ • 
TO) 8* €7rl iroivT iriraKTo avacraiixo/ AtroiXotcrij/ • 
TO) 8* d/uta TcacrapaKovTa fieXau/ai vrje^ irropTo, 

646 Kpr)Ta>v 8* 'iSo/jtei'cv? Sou/oticXvTo? Tfyefjioi/evei/, 
01 KvKocrov T €i)(op Toprvvd re ret^tdccrcrcu', 
AvKTov MlXtjtou tc /cat apytvoevra AvKaarov 

^OLOTOV T€ *Purtdl/ TC, TToXci? €V l/atCTOcJ Ttt?, 

dXXoi ^ ot KprjTYjv iKaTOfiTrokiv dfji(f)eP€fiovTO. 

660 roij' /utci/ dp* 'l8o/jLCj/ev9 8ov/0tfcXi;TO9 rjyefjiouevev 
Mrfpiovrj^ t, drctXai^ro? *Ejn;aXta> dvhpei^ovrrj • 
Toto"t 8* d/x* dy8c5/coi^a jxeXaLpai vrje^ eTroPTo. 

TXijTrdXc/Lto? 8* *H/oa/cXctS7;s, oyu? rc /xcya? tc, 
c/c *Pd8ov cVi/ca inja? dye^ *Po8tcoi/ dy€p(o)(0}v, 

655 ot *Pd8oi^ d[i(l>€i/€fjiovTo 8td TpL)(a Koa-firjdarre^, 
Kivhov *l7jXv<rdi/ rc /cat dpyivoevra l^dfieipov, 
tZp fiev TXTjTToXc/jtos 8ov/)t/cXvro9 rjyefiopeveu, 
OP T€K€i/ *AoTi;d;^cta )8t7; 'H/oa/cXr/ctT;, 
r^j/ dye/ cf 'E^vp?;?, Trora/jtoC dTro ScXXifci/ro?, 

660 wepaa^ darea TroXXd hioTpe^ioiv ai^rjojv. 

TXt/ttoXc/xos 8* CTTCt oSi/ rpdff) ipi fieydpco ivin]KT(o» 
avTLKa narpos iolo ^i\ov fnjTpcoa /carc/cra, 
1787; y7)pdarKOT/Ta, AuicvfiPLOP, ot,ov '^Aprjo^. 
au/ra 8c vrja^ CTnyfc, noXvp 8* o yc Xaoi/ dyeipa^ 

666 jS'^ (f>€vy(op iirl ttoptop • dmLhf]a'ap ydp ot dXXot 



44 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS B. 



vice? viaa/ol t€ jSw;? ^HpaicXr/cwys. 

avrap o y 1% *Pd8oi/ t^ci/ dXc6/jtci/05 aXyca 7rd<r)(a)p • 

rpi^x^OL Se ^KTjOev KaTa(f)v\aS6v, '^8e (fyikyjOei/ 

eK Atd9» 05 TC deolcTL /cat avOpwiroicriv avdao'ei, 

670 icat cr<^ti/ O^o'Triariov irkovrov Karej^evc Kpovi(ov. 
Ni/o€V9 a5 Sv/JLTjda/ aye TpeU vrja^ ctcra?, 
Ntp€V9, 'AyXatiy? vtos Xa/odiroto r* avaicro^, 
Nt/)€V9, o? /caXXtoTos (1^17/) vtto *lXiov '^X^ci' 
tSj' aXXcoj/ Aai/aoii^ /iter' afivfiova IlT^Xeiaira. 

675 dXX' dXaTToSi'o? e*;!', navpo^ 8c ot etTrcro Xad?. 

ot 8* dpa ^i(Tvp6v T el)(ov Kpdwadov rc Kdcroi/ t€ 
K(U K&v, EvpvihjkoLo vohv, vrjO'ow re KaXi;8i^a9> 
T(OP aS ^ciSivnos re koL ^Ai^rw^og riyrjO'da'driP, 
SeccrdKov vie 8va> ^HpaKketSao dvaKTo^. 

680 rot? 8c TpiijKovTa yXcufyvpal i/ccs iarixofovro. 

vvv aS rov9 ocraot to IlcXaayt/cov "Kpyo^ evaiov • 
ot r' ^AXoj' ot r 'AXottt^i^ ot rc Tpr/x^va vefxovro, 
ot r* cTjfoi/ ^dCrjv rjh* *EXXa8a /caXXtyui^at/ca, 
MvpfjLiSope^ 8c /caXcwro /cat ''EXXt^i/c? /cat 'A;(atot, 

685 rail' aS TrepnfjKoma veS)v rjv dpyo^ *A;^tXXcvs. 
dXX' ot y' ov noKefiOLO Svcrqx^os ifivdovTo • 
ov yap erjv 09 rt? a^ti/ cttI (TTv^a^ 7iyi}(TaLTO, 
KeiTO yap ev vrjearci wohdpicrjs 8to9 *A)(L\Xev^, 
Kovprjs ^oiOfiepo^ BpKrrjiho^ 'qvKOfioio, 

690 Trjv c/c Aypvyfo-o-ov i^elXero iroXXd iioyrjca^, 
KypvT^aarov hiatropOrio'a^ /cat rct^ca ©tj/St;?, 
/cd8* 8c Mvj^r' efiakev /cat *E7rL(rTpo(f)Ov ey^ccrt/xcSpov?, 
trtcag Eu>ji^oto 2€X'»77rtd8ao dvaKTO^ • 
r^S o yc /cctr' d^^coji/, rd^^a 8* dvcmrjoreo'dai e/ieWev. 

696 ot 8* ct;j(oi/ *vXdK7;i/ /cat Hvpacov dvOefioevTa, 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK XL 
AijfxrjTpo^ r€[jLa/o^, ^lT(opd re, firfrepa [lijXiov, 

Twp ad JIp(tyr€(ri\ao<; dpijios rjyefjiopevep 

^cDos €c3i/ • TOT€ 8* tjSt; €^€1/ KciTa yattt fieXawa. 

700 Tov 8k Koi d/ji<^iSpv^9 aXoxps ^vkdicrf ikekeLiTTO 
Kal 8o/Ltos riiiLTehj^ • top 8* eKrape Aa/>8ai^o9 din)p 
1^09 diroOpdxTKopTa irokv npcoriarTOP *A)(aL&p. 
ovSe fiep ov8* oi avap^oi icop, voOeop ye fxep dp^op • 
dXXct <r<^€a9 Koa/Jirjare HoSdpKTj^;, 0^09 '^Apvjo^, 

706 *I<^t/cXov V169 TToXvfjiyjKov 4>i;XaKt8ao, 

avTo/cao"i'yK>7T09 fieyadv/iov UpcoTecrikdov, 
oTrXorepo^ yepcy • 6 8' d/jta Trporepo^; Kal dpeCoDP, 
rjpcos npcoTeciXax)^ dprjio^ • ou8c rt Xaol 
Sevopff" rjyefiopo^i irodeop ye fxep eadXop eoPTa. 

710 TO) 8* d/jta TetrtrapdKOPTa yiekavpai pfje^ hroPTO. 
01 8€ 4>€pd9 epefjiOPTO vapai BoLfirjtSa \ifij/7)P, 
BoifirjP Kal r\a<f)vpa^ koX evKTifievy^p *Iaa>X/cdi/, 
rSiP ^px 'A8/jL')7roto <^tXo9 7rdt9, a'8cfca jrqwp, 
Eu/ut7;Xo9, Toj' vtt' *A8/x')7Tft> rc/cc 8ta ywaiKcjp, 

716 *AXfC7;oTt9, IlcXtao dxryarpcop €1809 dpLarn). 
■ ot 8' dpa M7f0(op7)p Kal &avfiaKLrjp epefioPTO 
KoX Mekifioi^ap expp Kal 'OXt^ali^a Tp7)xeLap, 

TWP 8c ^>tXoiCTTJ77;9 ^PX^> ^ €t8c59, 

CTird i/eoii/ • iperai 8* eKda-rg Trepn/jKOpra 
720 €jui)8€)8acrav, to^cop ev €t8orc9 t^t ixd^ecOax, 

dXX' 6 /jtG/ CI' i/ifcra) /cctro Kparep" dXyea frdaxcop, 
At^/xi/^ cz^ rjyadejf, o9l (jllp Xlttop vle<; *A^at5v 
cXiccl' fioxdilpPTa KaK<o 6Xo6(f)popo<; vSpov, 
€pff o ye Keir d^ecop • rd^a 8c p^irqaeardai efieXXop 
726 'Apyctoi Trapd Kijucrl 4>tXo/cT7jrao dpaKTO^. 

ovSc /xcv ov8' ot dpapxpi ecap, iroOeop ye [lep dp\6p * 



46 



OMHPOY IAIAA02 B, 



TOP p ireictp ^PTjj/rj vtt *OtX'§i irTo\i7r6p6(o, 

730 ol T €xpp Oi)(aXi7iv, ttoXu/ l&vpvrov Ol;(aXt'^o9, 
T&v aZff 'qyeio'Orjv *A(rK\r)7nov Suo TraiSc, 
irjrrjp* ayadd, UohakeLpio^ iJSe Ma^dan/, 
Tot5 Se TpirjKovra y\axf)vpal vee^ ioTix^vro, 
ot 8* €xap *OpfJi€i/Lov, ol T€ Kprjvjjv 'TTTcpctw, 

735 ot r' e^oj' ^Karipiov TiToivoio re \evKa Kdprjva, 
T(ov ^px Ev/ov7rvXo9, 'Evai/utwog dyXao? vlo9, 
8' ajuia TeaarapaKovra fxeXaipai vfje^ inovro. 
OL 8' " Kpyicrcrav ^xpv koX Tvprdnnfv ivefwirro, 
'^Opdrjv ^Hkcoirqv re voXlv t *0\oocrar6va Xeutajv, 

740 Tciv avff riyeiioveve [leveTrroXefjio^ TloXvnoLTrjs, 
vlo^ HeLpidooLO, TOP dOdvaro^ reKero Zcv5, 
Tov p VTTO Ilct/ot^dft) TeKCTo /cXvTos *l7r7ro8d/jtcta 
Tj/iaTL TO) ore (f>f]pa^ iTuraro Xa^i/ifci/Ta?, 
Tous 8' e/c Urikiov Sere /cat AidCKeao-L irikaaarQ/ • 

745 oufc oto9. d/xa rol yc Acoi^ei;?, 0^09 '^Aprjos, 
vto? vnepdvfiOLo Kopdpov Kawel&ao, 
rots 8* d/jta TeacrapdKOPTa /jtcXatmt k^c? hroPTo. 

Vovvev^ 8' €K Kv(f)0V ^ye hv(o Koi eiKoci prja^ • 
TO) 8* 'Ei/fiji/e? erroPTo fiepeirToXefJioi re TIepatjSot, 

750 ot Trepl Aoihcoprjp 8v(r)(eLfJL€pop oIkC edePTo, 
OL T dfi^^ ifxepTOP TiTapTjaiop ipya pl/iopto, 
09 p €s UripeLOP TTpo'iei Kokkippoop vSwp • 
ov8* o ye TlripeL^ oufjLfjiLaryeTaL dpyvpoSipy, 
dXXd T€ /uttj/ KadvirepOep eirippeei 'jqvr ekaiop • 

765 opKov yap Seipov Srvyog vSards earrip dnoppd^. 
Mayin]T(op 8* ^px^ TlpoOoo^, TevdprjSopo^ vlo^, 
ot nepl TlyjpeLOP koi YlrjkLOP evpoaufyvWop 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK IL 



vaiecKOP • r&p fikv Ilpodoos Boos '^ye/iovevep, 
ra> 8* oifia recrarapaKoma yuekaivai vr)&; inopro. 

760 ovTOL dp* Tiyefiove^ Aapa&p Koi Koipapoi ^crai/. 
Ti9 T ap rSfp apioTO^ eqp, aij fxoi ippem, fiovca, 
avTiop ijO iTTTTdiP, ot afi ArpCLOjia'LP eiroPTo, 
iTTTTOi pjep /xcy' apiOTOLi iaap ^TfpijTic&ajo^ 
Ttt? 'Eu/xiyXo? i\avp€ voS(oK€a^ oppiOa^ cS^, 

766 oTpLXOL^ oUreas, OTa<f>v\'g inl pcjtop iicra^ • 
ra? ip TlTjpeiji dpo^* dpyvporo^o^ *Aw6Xka}P, 
a/Jicfxo drjkeia^y ^o^op '^Aprfo^ <f>op€ov<ra^. 
dpSp&p aS fiey api(rro<; eqp TekafKOPto^ AJag, 
o^/)* *A;(t\€V5 fjLijpLep • 6 yap noXv ^epraro^ ^ep, 

770 tTTTroi ff, ot <f>opi€a'KOP dfivfiopa TlTjXetfOPa, 
aXX* 6 /jtG/ ip prjea'CL KopcDPtai, TTOPTonopoKriP 
Keir airofirfPicra^ *Ayafi€fXPOPL, iroi/im XaUp, 
*ATpet8y • \aol Sc ira/xx prfypXpL ddkdcraiti^ 
htaKOKriP repiroPTo /cat alyapegatp iepre^ 

776 To^ouTLP ff ' Imroi Se 7ra/o* dpfjicuru/ oIclp c/ca<rro?, 
XcoToi/ ipenrofiepoi, iXeodpenTOP rc aeXupop, 
ioTaaoLP • dpy^ara 8' c5 veirvKaafiipa Kelro dpaKTWP 
ip KXiO'Cgs. oi 8' dp)(OP dp7)^>iXop irodeopre^ 
<I>OLTO}P €pda KoX €P0a Kara OTparop, ou8* iiidxoPTO. 

780 Oi 8' ap* wrai', a>9 ct t€ ttv/oI j^^oiv Tracra P€[iovro • 
yata 8* vireoTepd^il^e Atl 0)9 TepirLKepavpo} 
Xcjofxepw, ore t d/x^l Tv(jxoeL yaiap ifidcro'ji 
eip *ApLiioL^, odi <f)aai Tv(f)Q>€o^ efxfiepat eifpds. 
&9 apa Tcip wo TToo-arl fieya arepaxCC^To yawt 

786 ip)(ofi€P(ap • [idXa 8* &Ka huenprfo'a'OP ire8ioto. 

TpcDoip 8* ayyeXo? -^X^e irohijpefio^ wKea 



48 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS B. 



ci S* ayopas ayopevov inl Ilpi,dfioio dvpn<nv 
TToirres ofiTfyepees, yfiuv v€ol -^Se ycpopres. 
790 ayxp^ 8' larafievti irpoo'ii^ TroSas c^icea ^Ipi^ • 
ctcraro 8c f^doyyyiv vXi Tlpidfioio IIoXw^, 
09 Tpdfov (TKono^ t^e, irohcDKei'ga'L TreTrot^co?, 
rv/xjSo) CTT* aKpordrta AtoTnfrao yepovros, 

796 ^11/ i€L(rafX€Pr] trpoari^ iroha^ wKea *I/ot9 • 
*' Z ycpov, aUi rot, [ivdoi* <^i\oi aKpiroi elaiv, 
m TTOT en eipijvrjs • noXefios 8* dXiaoros opct)p€P. 
^ ph/ 8)) /AoXa TToXXa pa^a^ ciaijXvOop dvSpSk/^ 

800 XtT^j' yd/o ^AXotcrw' ioiKore^ }jsapd6oLa'iv 
€pxovrai ireZLoio pa^tropevoi wporl darv. 
"^KTop, (Toi 8c pd\i<TT cVtrcXXo/jtai S8c yc pe^au 
voWol yap Kara daru p4ya Jlptdpov iiriKovpoi, 
dWrj 8* dXXcoi^ yXScrcra TroKvcnrep4wp dvdpdmioi/ • 

805 roifriv cicaoro? di/^p a-rjpaLvera), olcri mp dp^^i, 
r£v 8* i^ryYeLcrdo), Koo-pTjo-dpei^o^ TroXtiyra?.'* 

a>9 €<l>a6\ "^^Krcjp 8' ov rt ^cd? ctto? rfYvoir)(T€v» 
atiffa 8* cXv(r* dyopijv • cm rcv^^ca 8* iarcrevopro. 
nacat 8* mypwro TrvXat, €#c 8* iarairro Xad?, 

810 TTC^oi ^' tTTTT^c? TC * TToXvs 8* opvpaySo^ opdipeiv. 
ioTL 8c Tt9 TTpondpoide 7rdXt09 aiTTCia KoXaii/i}, 
ci/ 'n'c8tct> dirdvevde, nepiSpopos €v0a Kal epOa, 
rrip ^ rot dp8p€^ Bartcioi/ KLKkijarKovo'iP, 
dddparoi 8c re cr^/xa irokvarKdpOpoio Mvpuprj^ • 

815 a/^a TOTC Tpcocs tc SieKpidep -^8* hriKOvpoi*. 

TpoDorl pkp rjy€p6p€V€ peya^ KopvdaioKo^ ^EKrcDp» 
UpixipiSTjs ' d/xa yc ttoXv TrXctorot Koi dpurroi, 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK II. 



Xaot dfopija'a'ovTo, [lefxaore^ iyxei'jfa'Lv, 

820 Alvtia^, TOP vir *Ayx^^ '^^'^^ ^Ki^pohtrq, 
^ISt;? h/ KvrjfxoLO'L 6ea fiporS ewrjd^tcra, 
ovK 0T09, dfxa ye Svo) ^Avrrjvopo^ vie, 
^Kpxikoxp^ T *Aicajuia9 re, lidxv^ eihore irdaij^. 
ot 8c ZeXeiav evaiov xmai iroha veiaTov ^18175, 
825 d^vet,oi, mvovres vSoi/) fiekav AiaijTroLO, 

T/o5€5, Tcov adr ^px^ Avkoovo^ dyXao? vto5, 
Havhapo^y ^ Kot to^oh/ *A7r6Wa)v avT69 eStoKcv, 

ot 8' * Ahprjoreiav t etxov /cat Bfj[jLOP 'AnaLcrov, 
Kou HiTvetav exop koX Trjpeirjf: opos aiirv, 
830 T(ov ^px " AhpTjaro^ rc /cat *A/jL<^to9 XivoOdpri^, 
vie 8vci) MepoTTo^ nepKcociov, 09 nepl iravTdiv 

ee [lairroarwa^, ovSe ov9 iTat8a9 eacKev 
areix^iv is iroKefiov ^9ia"qvopa. ron Sc ot ov ri 
Treideadrjv • Krjpes yap aiyop fieXavos OavaTOio. 
835 ot 8' dpa HepKdjTrjp /cat Mpdicnov dfi(f)€PeiioPTo 
/cat ^rjOTOv /cat ^A^vBop exop /cat Stai^ ^ApLa-fiT/p, 
tZp aZff *T/)ra/ct8T;9 ^PX ^Ao't09, opx<^p*os dpSp&p, 
*Ao-to9 *T/)Ta/ctS7y9, OP ^ApiafirjOep (f>€pop Ittttoi, 
aW(i)pes fieydXoi, irorafiov drro XeWrjemos, 
840 'l7r7rd^oo9 8* dye (f)v\a IleXaayaJi/ eyxea-ifKopoDP, 
tS}p ot Adpiaap €/>tyScoXa/ca paierdaaKOP • 
T(op ^px ^I'TTToOoos re nvXatd9 r, 0^09 '^Aprjos, 
vie Sua) AijOoio IlcXacryov Tcvra/uttSao. 

avTOLp 0/)T;t/ca9 ^y* 'A/ca/uta9 /cat Ueipoos 17/OC09, 
846 oo'crov9 *EXXT/(r7roKro9 dydppoos ivros eepyei, 
'Ev<f>r)iJios 8' dpxos KiKOPcop 'Jjp aixfiyjTdcDP, 
vto9 TpOL^ijpoio BiOTpe^eos Kca8ao. 

avrdp IlvpaLXfiTjs dye IlaCopas dyicvXoro^ovs 



50 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS B. 



rriKoOGf *Afivh£ipo^, an *Af lov evpv peovros* 
850 *A^iov, ov KoKKurrov vSaip iTTiKthvarai aXciv. 

Ha^XayopcDv S' riyeiTo Hv\aLfia/€o^ Xdaiov Krjp 
*^i/€tZp, o0€p 'fffLuovGiv jivo^ ayporepdcDV, 
01 pa KvTCjpov €xpv Kai ^rjaa^ov afiij>€i/€fiovTO 
aii(f>L T€ Hapdiviov norafiov kKutcl hdfiar* G/aiov, 
855 KpZfivdv T Aiyiakov re Kat vt/n^Xov? *Epv0ivovs. 
avrap *A\l^(ov(op *08«)5 Kal ^^iarpo^o^ VPX^^ 
rqXodeP 'AXvfiyjs, odeif dpyvpov carl yei/edXy). 

MvaS^v 8k XpofjLLs ^PX^ "Ewo/xo? ouovLcrrijs. 
dXX* ovK oUavoia-iv Ipvcra-aTO Krjpa fieXawav, 
860 dXX* ihap/q vtto X^P^^ TToSoiiceo^ AiokiSoo 

TTOTafiS, odi n€p Tp&as K€pdL^€ koI dXXov^, 
^pKV^ at 4>puya5 ^yc Kal *Ao"Kdi/to9 deoeiS^^ 
T^X* *Aa'KaPL7jS ' fiefiaaav 8* vcplvi fid)(€a'daL. 
Mj/oaip aS MeaOXyj^ re icat ^AvtuI>os 'fffqcrda'd'qv, 
866 vtc TaXaift€i/co9» ro) Tvyaiy) TCKe Xifivrj, 
ot Kal Mjjova^ rjyov viro T/icuXa) ycyafira?. 

Ndcmy? aZ Kapa>i/ rjyyja-aro fiapfiapoifHjjPiov, 
ot MiXyjTOv ^xov ^dipSn/ t opos dKpLT6(l>vXXov 
MaidpSpov TC poas M vicdX7}9 r almipa Kdprjva. 
870 rSi/ fiev ap *Afi<l>Lfia)(o^ koL Ncwrriy? rffqcrda'dyjv. 
Ncton;? ^Afi^Lfiaxo^ tc, No/xtoi^o? dyXad rcwa, 
05 icat xpvcrov ^xcdp noXefiovh* Up ^utc Kovprj, 
vTjmo^, ovSc ri oi rd y* iihjpKea'e Xvypov oXeOpov, 
dXX* iSdfjLTf vno X^P^^ ttoScu^co? AiaiciSao 
876 €v irorafiS, xpva-ov 8* *AxtXev5 iKOfiia-a-e hdi^pwv. 
XapTrrjSoiP 8' ^px^ AvkCojh/ Kal TXavKO^ dfivficiv 
rrjXodev iK Avklt/s, Bdpdov diro hunjevros. 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK IH. 



51 



OMHPOT lAIAAOS T. 

/ 

rdufAa 8* &p* ifjuj}^ 'EX^vi}s oXoiy fi66os iffrXv aucotraiy, 
Oamma — suo pugnat pro coniuge uterque maritus, 

' Gamma the single fight doth sing 
Twixt Paris and the Spartan king/ 

opKOL. Tevyoa-KOTTia. HdpiSos kol MeveXdov fiopofiaxia. 

avrap irrel Koafirfdev oifi iff^f^ovecrcriv cicaoroi, 

iQvre rrep Kkayyr) yepaa/fov neXei ovpavodt npo, 
at T inet ovp ^^ct/iSj/a <f>vyov koX ade(T<^aTOv ofifipov, 
6 K\ayyg rat ye irerovrai iir ^ilKeavoio pod(oi/, 
dj/Spdo'L Ilvy/iaiowri <f>ai/op kol icrjpa f^ipovcrai • 
'^epuiL 8* dpa rat y€ KaKrjv cptSa irpof^ipovrai • 
ot 8* ap* uroa/ (riyy /xcVca irveiovre^ *A^aioL, 
€v dvfJL^ fiefiaZres dke^efiep dkXijkoLa'iv. 

10 edr opeo^ Kopv<^(Ti N0T09 Karex^vev ofiLxkrjV, 
noLfjLeo'w ov ti (fyiXrji/, KkeirTrj Se t€ pvkto^ dfiea/cD • 
Toaaov ri9 r iirl Xevcaei, oaov r iiri \aav LrfCLv • 
&9 dpa rSiv viro Trocra'X KovuraXo^ (opwT deW'^s 
ip^ofievaa/ • fidXa 8' Zxa SUnpria'a'ov TreStoio. ^ 

16 01 8* oT€ 817 (TX^Sw r^a'av hr d\\rikoi(riv iopres, 
Tpoalv fih/ 7rpoiid)(il^€i/ ^AXi^avhpo^ deoeiSrjs, 
iraphakeqv ^iioi^aw extav koX KafimiXa TO^a 
KoX ^1^0^, avrap hovpe 8va> KeKopvOfieva x^XkoJ 
iraXXcDi/ *Apy€ia}v irpoKoKiJ^ero irdvTa^s dpioTovs 



52 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS T. 



ip)(6iJL€i/ov TrpoirapoiOei/ ofiCkov /laKpa fiiPaura, 

€vpQ}v fj i\a<f>ov Kcpaov rj aypiov alya, 
25 miva(ov * fLoka yap re KaTeaOieL, et rrep &.v avrhv 
crevoivrai raxees re icw€9 OaXepoi r al^rjoi • 
a>9 €)(apri McrcXaog ^AXe^avSpov deoaZia 
6(f}da\fiOLa'u/ l8(ov • <^aro yap rlaao'dai akevrqv* 
avrwca S* c£ 6x4(ov (xvv reSx^o-w SXro xafia^e. 

ei' TTpofioixoKri ^avevra, KaTeirXrjyrf <f>i\ov 7)Top, 

8' irdptov €15 ej^ajero icJJp* aX€€u/a>i/. 

ci? 8* 0T€ Ti5 re SpaKovra ihcov irakwopo'o^ anean/f 
ovpeo^ iv ^TjaaiQ^, vtto re rpo/ios cXXajSc yvta, 

35 axji 8* apexfoprfo-ev, &XP^^ '^^ napeids, 
0)9 a5rt9 ofiikov c8u UpdoDV dycpol^^o)!/ 
8cto"a9 ^Arpio^ vlov *A\i^avhpo^ O^oeihrj^. 
TOV 8' ^Eicroip v€LK€cra-€i/ ihoiv aiaxpoi^ iireeao'iv • 
" Avcnrapi, €1809 dpiare, ywaifiavc^, rjirepoTrevrd, 

^Oalff 6(f>€kes dyovo^ t ifia/ai dyafio^ t dnokeo'OaL* 

Kai K€ TO fiovXoLflTjV, Kai K€P TTokv K€phlOV ^G', 
OVTQ) Xd^TJV T €fJL€l/ai KOL VnO^LOV d\k(t}V. 

^ rrov KayxaKoo}^ Kaprf KOfiowvT^^ *Ax(iiol, 
^dvT€s dpiarria irpo/iov e/i/ievaL, ovv€Ka koXov 

45 cI8o9 in, dXX' ovK cori jSo; ij>p€alp ov8c Tt9 dXicj* 
yj TOLOO-Se io}v iv irovTOTropoia-i veeaa-LV 
TTOVTOv c7ri7rXo>cra9, erdpov^ epiyjpa^ dyeipa^, 
/ii^^cW aXXo8a7rorcri yvvaiK ci;€i8c* dvfjye^ 
dvir)^ yaiTf^, vvov dvhpS>v at^/xiyrctoii/, 

60 traTpi T€ cr^ fieya Trfjfia TToktfi re ttcwtL t€ hrjfifp^ 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK III. 



SvG'iieuca'iv fikv j^dpfia, KaT7iij>€Crjv col avr^ ; 
ovK av 817 fteimas aprfi^LKov Mei/eXaov ; 
yuotrjs X, OLov (fmro^ ^X^^^ daK^pr}v irapaKovrw. 
OVK 00/ TOL ^aUrpLji KidapLS rd re 8&p* 'A<^po8m}9» 

55 rj T€ KOfiT) TO T€ cTSo?, OT iv Kovtji<n /jttyctTys. 
dXXa fiaXa Tpwes 8eij8ijfiov€s • ^ re ic€i^ 17817 
\dwov icrao KaKoiv €U€)^, ocrcra eopya^,^ 

Tov 8* aSre irpoa-eeiireif *AXc^ai/Spo9 ^€oci8'>79 • 
"''EKTop, inei fie Kar aUrav iveiKeaa^ ov8* {nrep atcroi^, 

60 aici rot KpaZiT} irikeKv^ cS? corti' drctpi/?, 

05 T €10*11^ Ota oovpo? VTT av€po^, 05 /oa re Tiyvji 
vTjvov iKrdfivjjcLv, o^iWei 8' di/8po? iponjv • 
a>9 o"ot ci'i (rnjdeo'O'Lv drdpfinTo^ v6o^ earw • ' , 
/XT/ px>i 85/0* ipara npotfyepe xpvo-CT/? * A(f}p68irrjS • 

65 ov rot dnofiXrjT iarl dewv ipiKvhea SUpa, 

occra Kev avroi hSxriv, eKwv 8' ovk dv rt5 cXotro. 
vvv aSr', €1 /£* c^cXcts iroXc/it^cii/ ^8€ iidxeaOai, 
dXXov9 /x€i/ KdOtaov TpaJas #cat Trctira? 'A^cuow, 
avrdp €/x* fiecco) Kal dpyji^iKov MeveXaov 

70 (rvfifidkeT afi<f> 'EXo^ /cat Kn/jfiaxri waa-i fidxeadau 
omrorepos 8c k€ viKijirg KpeLaaov re yiirqrai, 
KTrjiiaGf iXoiP iv rrdvra yvvaiKd re <?r/fa8* dyicdca • 
01 8' dXXot <f>L\6rrp-a Kat opKia Trtord rafiovres 
vaiotre Tpoirjv ipifitoXaKa, rot 8e veea-dm/ 

75*A/)yo9 C5 vmrofioTov Koi 'A^attSa /caXXtywat/ca.** 

0)5 €<l>a0*, "^EKTOip 8' avT* t)(dp7f ficya fivOov dKovaa^, 
Kni p is fiicaov Icdp Tpcicov dveepye <f>d\ayyas, 
liAaaov hovpos eKoiv • rot 8* ISpvvdrfcrav diravre^. 
8* iTrero^d^oPTO Kdprq Koiiotovres *A;(atot, 

80 touru^ T€ TiTVO'KOfxevoi Xdecrai r €)8aXXoi/. 

avrdp 6 /laKpov dvcev dva^ dvhp&v * AyafjL€fiv(ov • 



54 



OMHPOY IAIAA02 T. 



arrevTcu yap rt inos ipeeip Kopvdaioko<; ''E^Toip.*' 
0)5 €ij>afff ol 8* €<r)(ovTo fiixjl^ av€<p re yivovTO 

86 encvfiivto^. ''^KTOip 8c /icr* afjL<f>oT€poLa'Lv ieiTrep • 
" K€k\vt€ fiev, Tpa>€9 icat ivKinjfitSes 'A^atot, 
fLvdov *A\e^dvSpoLO, rod elveKa v^lko^ optopev. 
akkov^ fiep ^cXerat Tpoias icai irdvra^ *A^aiov9 
Tcv^ea ^aX* dirodeadai im \6ovi irovkv^oTeipy, 

90 avroi^ 8* iv fiicraio koX aprfi<f>Lkoi/ MercXaoi/ 

oimorepos 8c kc viKijaig Kpcicrcaiv rc ydtrr/Tai, 
KTTifiatr €Axov €V TTcurra ywoLKa rc oiicao ay^cruw. 
ol 8* aXXoi (^tXanyra ^ai opKia nurra rd/jLtofMev** 

96 a»5 i<f>a0*, ol 8' apa 7rai^C9 afc]7i/ iyivovro (tuott^. 
Toccrt 8c ^ai fjL€T€€L7re fiorji^ dya0o^ Mci'cXao? • 
'* k€k\vt€ vvv Kol ifjLeio • /laXtora yap aXyo? t^wc4 
Ovfiov ifiov • ^/30i/ca) Sc htaKpivdijiJiG^aL 17877 
*Apy€Lov^ KOL TpSa?, c^rct fca#ca ttoXXcl werroaOe 
rlOO cii^cfc* €/i^5 ipthos Koi *AXcfai^8pov cvcfc' apx^^^ 
7lii€(ov 8' onnoTepo) OdvaTo^ /cat y^otpa rerufcrat, 
Tedvavtf • aXXot Sc SLaKpu/deire ToxyTTa. 
olceTe 8' a/oi'*, erepov \evKov erepr/v 8c /xcXaii/av, 
rc /cat ^cXio> • Ad 8' i7fLcr5 ouro/icj/ oXXoi/. 

106 d^CTC 8c Ilpid/xoio jSiiyi', o<^p* opKia TafLvrj 
avTos, iirei ol 7raI8c5 vmp^LoKoi Kat aTTiorot, 

715 virep^aavQ A109 opKia SrjhjarjTaL. 
aiel 8* birkorepiav avhpSiv <f>pev€^ 'iQepedovrat • 
019 8* o yepoiv fierirjo-iVy oifMa rrpoao'Q} kol oirio'a'O) 

110 Xcvcrcrct, 07ra>9 o^* dpLora fier dii^oripoio'i yevTjrat** 
&9 ci^a^, ot 8' €xdp7)(rap *AxatoL rc Tp&es rc, 
iknofia/oL iravaao'dai oi^vpov TroXifioLo. 



HOMER'S U^IAD, BOOK III. 



KM p Ittttov^ fi^v epv^av inl ortj^a?, cic 8* ifiaof aurol 
T€v)(ed T i^eBvovTo. ra /xci/ Karedevr iirl yolji 

116 irXyjo-LOV ak\ij\(ov, oXiyiy 8' a/ji<^i9 apovpa* 
'^EKT(op 8c TTporl aoTv 8va> icrjpvKa^ inefiirev, 
KapTTokifKos api/as re <f)€peLv Ilptafiov t6 Kokeacrai. 
avrap 6 TaKOvfiiov npotei Kpeicjv ^Ayofiefivoiv 
vrjas cm yXa<f>vpas levai, ^8' appa /ccXcva/ 

120 ourcfievaL • 6 8* ap* ov#c diriOrjcr* ^ Ayafi4p»vovL 8£y. 
*Ipi9 8* avff *lEX4vjj \€VK(okEV(o ayycXo5 ^X^ci', 
elSofieinj yaX6(a, *Avrqvop(Zajo Sd/iapri, 
r^v ^ AvTqvopihri^ cT^c Kpeitov 'EXiKooiv, 
AaohiKrjv, npidfioio dvyarpcov ethos dpLorrjv. 

125 rffv 8* evp* ev fieydpo) • tj 8c fieyap Ictop v^awep^ 
hCnXaKa Trop(f>vpe7)P, no\eas 8' epenacrcep deOXov^ 
Tpa>G)v ^ iTrrro8dfjLO}p kol *A^aL(ap ^(aXico^ircoi/aiv, 
ofts ci^ci/ eu/eK ejraxrxpp vtt '^Apr/os rrakafidcap. 
dyj^oS 8* larafievri 7rpoa'e<l}rf mSas cuKca *Ipts • 

130 " 8cvp* Wl, pvfi^a (f>L\7i, LPa OecKeka epya iSrfat 
Tpdcjp ff ImroSd/jLWv kol ^A^aiSiP \a\Ko^iTOJiP<ap. 
0% npip en aXXT^Xowrt <^/3or 7ro\v8aKpvp ^Apija 
ep Trehuj), 6\oolo XtXatoftci/ot noXefiou), 
oi 817 pvv carat criyy, voXefios 8c ireiravraL, 

136 danicri KCKXifiepoi, irapd 8* €Y)(ea fiaKpd Tremyycjr. 
aura/9 *AXe^(xpBpos Koi d/)77t<^tXo9 McvcXao? 
fiaKpgs eyxevdci piayrjcroPTai nepl creio • 
TO! 8c KC piKyjaroPTi, f^iXtj KeKXrjaji a^otri?.** 
a>5 ctTTOvcra ^cd yXvKvr Ifiepop efi^aXe Ovfi^ 

140 01/8^09 TC TTpoTepoix) KOL acTTeo^ ^8c TOKrjtav. 
avTLKa 8* dpyevp^o'i KaXv^afievrf odopyo'ip 
&pfiar eK daXd/JiOio repev Kara SdKpv \e0vcra9 
OVK olr/, aifia ye Kat dp^^iiroXoi hv eiroPTO, 



56 



OMHPOY IAIAA02 V. 



145 a^a 8* eneid' Ikoi/ov odi Siccuat irvXat ^crtiv. 

ol S* afL^l Hpiafiov Kol Ildvdoov yjhk ^vyLoirriv 
Adfinov rc KXvriov 'iKeraovd t*, o^ov *Apiyo9, 
OvicoXeyoii' rc ical ^Kyrqwap^ miJWfia/o} dfKfxo, 
euLTo Srjfioyepovres im IfKavgai vvkyKrw, 

150 yqpaX 8rj noXdfiou) neiravfia/oi, dXX* dyop^ax 
iadkoi, T€TTtyc<r<ru/ coticorcs, ol tc Kaff* vXtjv 
hevhpiif i<f>€^6ii€voL oira XeLpioeairai/ Ulclv • 
Toloi apa Tp(0(ov rfyrfrope^ rpn im irvpy(o. 
ol 8* C09 oSi' elhovff 'lEkeprjv im Trvpyov lovaw, 

165 ^Ka irpos dWijkom iirca irrepoein dyopevov • 
ov vifiea-LS TpZas Koi ei/Ki^/xiSas *A;fatou9 
Toi^S* dfiif}! ywaiia 7ro\vv ^ovov aXyca irdcr)(€W 
aivw^ ddavdrfjai Oegs els Zrra €Olk€v. 
akXa Kal a»5, toltj nep iova, iv trr/val vecado), 

160 1X7)8* 71 flip TeKeeacL r omcra'ia TnjfMa ydnoiTo** 

0)9 dp* €(f>oa/, TlpCaiio^ 8* ^ISXiprfv iKoXdo'a'aTO <^o>i/^ < 
" 8€vpo irdpoiff ikdovcra, ^ikov T€ko^, t^ev ifjLeio, 
o<f>pa t&g vporepov re ttoo-u/ mfoik re ^iXov9 rc. 
ov Ti fioL cuTLTj icci ' 0€OL vv fioL aLTLOL eifriv, 

165 01 fioL itfxopfiTja'av iroKefiov Tro\v8aKpvv ^Pc^axSw 
015 ^ot /cat Tov^ dv8pa ireXcopiov iiopofjLTjvys, 
05 Tt9 o8' ioTLv *A)(aLO^ dv7)p rjv^ TC fLcya9 rc. 
^ Toi fjL€v Ke(f>a\'g Kal fiei^ove^ aXXoi eacrip, 
Kokov 8* ovT(o iya)v ov ttgi tSoi' o^OakfLolaiv, 

170 ov8* ovTO) yepapov • fiaa-iKTji yap dv8pl eoiKCi/** 

Tov 8' ^EKetrr/ fivOoicriv dfieipero, 8ta ywaiKSn/ • 
" ai8ou>9 rc /jtot €0"0"t, <^tXc iicvpe, Sctvo^ rc • 
(09 o<^cXci/ Odi/aro^ fioi dScu/ KaKo^, onwore 8cv/oo 
vice <r^ inofirjv, ddXafiov yvwoxk rc Xt7ro5o"a 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK IIL 



176 TratSa re Tfikvyirriv Koi o/xT^XtKiT^i/ ipaTeunjv. 

dXka TO, y ovK iyivovro • to zeal KKaiova-a reTrjKa. 
Towo 0€ TOL epco), o fi aveipeai i^oc /leraAA^s. 
o5to9 y 'ATpefSris €vpv Kpeioav 'Ayafiefivtop, 
aiJL<f>6T€poi/, fiaariXev^ t ayados KpoLTepo^ t aixfirinj^ • 

180 Sarip airr ifio^ citr/ce KVpdmSos, €l ttot hjv ye** 

ot)s ffxiTo, Tov 8* 6 yipcop yiydcaaro (fxai/rjaev re • 
*' & fLOLKap ^Arpethy), fioipriya/e^, oXfitoSaLfiov, • ' ^ 
^ pdvv TOL noWol 8c8/£7jaTo Kovpoi *Ax€uciv. 
yjSr) KoX ^pvyCrjv €i(nj\v0ov dfjLirekoeao'av • 

186 G/da iSov irXeio'Tovs ^pvya^ oi/cpa?, aioXoTrdXov^, 
\au)vs ^Orpyjo^ koX MvySwo? dvrideoLo, 
OL pa TOT ecrTpaTooiVTO Trap' o^Oas ^ayyaploio • 
KoX yap iyoiv iiriKovpos ioiv fierd Toiaiv i\€)(07)P 
rjliaTL t£ ore t '^\6ov *Afia^6v€^ dvTidveipai • 

190 dXX' ov8' oi ToaoL Jjaav, oaot cXt/ca>7r€? 'A^^atot.** 
SevTepop air* *OSv<rr}a iSci>v ipeeu/ 6 yepai6<i • 
ciTT aye [loi /cat Tovoe, (piKov TeKos, 09 T19 00 coTti^i 
fieCcDv fih/ #t€<^aX^ * Ay afiefivopos *ATpet8ao, 
evpvTepo^ 8* cifioLO'LV i8e crrepvoio'Lv ihicrOai. 

196 Tev)(ea fiev ol /cctrat cttI \dovi TTOvXvfioTetpy, 
avTOS 8c OTtXo9 a>9 cViTrftiXciTat aTixa^ dvhpSiV 
dpj/eiai fitv iyo) ye eia-Kcn Trr)yecrLfidWa>, 
09 r owwi/ fieya ttwv hvip\eTai a/oycwctcoi/.'* 
Toi/ 8* '^fieifieT eireiff ^EXetrr/, Ato9 eKyeyavla • 

200"o5TO9 8*auAac/0Tia8>79, noKv/jLrjTLfs *08va-cr€v^, 
09 Tpd(f)7i ev SyjfKo *l6dicq^ Kpavarj^ irep iovanj^, 
€t8a)9 7rai^oiov9 re SdXov9 Kal fjLjjSea TruKvd** 

TTjv 8* avr* *AvTrjv(op TreirvvfLevo^ optlov ijvSa • 
" 3 yvvai, ^ fidXa tovto eiro^ irqixepTe^ eeiwes • 

206 1781; yap Kal hevpo ttot rjkvOe 8109 '08u<r<ra;s, 



58 . ^ OMHPOY lAIAAOS 

crcD &€K* ayyeXtrj^, crw apj)L^CK(f Meikkd^ • 
T0V9 8* cyo) iieivia-a-a kol iv fieydpouri ^ikrfo-a, 
afi<l>oT€pa)P 8c if>vrjv ihwqv koI fiijSea irvKva. 
aXX' ore 817 Tpciecra-a^ €v aypofiivoia-w ifiix^a/, 

210 oTavTiov fi€v Mei/eXaog imeLpex^v evpea^ wfiov^, 
afi<l>(0 8* €^ofi€V(o, yepapdrepo^ ^Ohvarcrev^, 
dXX* ore 8^ fivdovs kol fnjSea Tracip v^oavov^ 
^ Toi fih/ Me/cXao? iirvrpox^'^v ayopevei/, 
navpa /la/, akXa fiaXa Xiy/ois, €7r€i ov irohifivdo^t 

216 ov8* aufHtfiapToeunjs, ct kol yevei varepo^ fjeu. 
dXX* arc 8^ iroXvfirjTLS avat^evev '08vcr(r€V9, 
arda-Ka^, viral Sc r8c(r^€ /card x^o^'o? ofifiara mj^a^, 
(rKyjirTpov 8* ovr* onCo'Ci} ovre Trpoirpy}vk% ofd/xa, 
dXX* au(TT€fL^<; exi^cKev, dChpei (fxarl ioiKot^ ■ 

220 (fniLris K€ J^OLKorw re rti'' efifMO/at aij>povd t atrrai?. 
dXX' ore 817 OTra r€ fieydkyjv Ik (mjOeos elrj 
Koi eirea vi^dhefrciv ioLKora xeifiepLyo'Lv, 
ovK &.V ineiT *08v<rfj[ y ipCa'ceie fiporo^ dXXo9 • 
ov t6t€ y 58* '08vcr^09 ayao'cdfi^ff €1809 t8di/rc9.** 

226 ' TO Tpirov aSr* Kiavra Ihoiv ipeeiv 6 yepatos • 
' Tt5 T ap 00 aXXo9 Axcuo^ avrjp 771/9 rc fieya^ rc, 
e$oxps ^Apyeioiv Ke<f>aXijv rc /c al evpeas ft)/jtov9 ; '* 

roi/ 8' 'EXo/t; raw7r€7rXo9 dfjLeifiero, 8?a yvvaiKcop • 
" o5ro9 8* Ara9 ccrrt 7r€X(i5pto9, ipKo^ *AxaiZv. 

230 'l8oftei^v9 8' erepfodev evl KpTjrecra'i Oebs &9 
ioTTjK, dfi(f>l 8c /lu/ Kprfr&v ayol rjyepedovrau 
iroXkdKL fiiv ^^ivixr(T€v dpril^Ckos Mci/cXao9 
owfct) G/ y)iierip(f, oirore KprjrriOep ikoito. 
vvv 8* dXXov9 ftci/ 7rdi/ra9 opai eXiicciiTras *Aj(aioii9, 

236 OV9 cu yvotnv /cat r* ovi/ofia iivOTjaaLfirfv • 
801&1 8' ov Swafiai i8c€ti/ KoaiiijTope XaZv, 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK IIL 



Kdaropd 9 imr^Bafioi/ Kat tjv^ ayadov XIoXvSevKea* 
avTOKaavyi^TCi}, T(o fioi jiia yeivaro fiTJTrjp. 
^ ov^ io'Treo'dTjp Aa^cSayxow? c£ ipaTeanjs, 
240 fj Sevpto fia/ enovTO veeaa eui irovroiropouriVf 

vvv avT ovK iOiXovKri fioxO^ KaToBvfiei/aL aphp&v, 

9f \»/CN '\\** »» 

aio^ea 0€ioior€9 Kai oveioea iroKK , a fioi ecrip* 

a>5 (^ctTo, TOV5 8* rjSri Kare)(€v ifwai^oos aid 
iv AoKeSalfiovi avOi, 4^iXy rrarpiZi ycLiji' 

246 KiijpvKe^ 8* ava aa"Tv 0€q}v ^epov opKia Tncrrd, 
apve Svai /cat ob/ov iv^pova, Kapnov apovprf^, 
acK^ iv aiy€L(t) • <l>€pe he Kprfr^pa (fxteipov 
Krjpv^ *l8aro5 1786 ^vaeia #cv7rcXXa • 
anpvvev 8c yepovra irapLardfiofos ineecrinv • 

260 " opaeo, AaoiieSovridSTj, KaKeovaiv apurroi 

Tpcmv ff iirnoSd/jLiov koX ^A,\aiZv ^okKoxirmvuxi^ 
€5 irehiov Karapifi/ai, uf opKia -Trtora rdfiTjrc. 
avrap ^A\e^av8po^ Koi dprfi(f>Lko^ MevdXao^ 
fiaKp^s iyx^^T}^^ iiayrjcrovT afi^l ywaiKi' 

266 8c ICC viKjja'avTi yvvTi #cal Kn/j/iaO* eiroiro • 
oi 8* aXXot ^iXoTTjTa koi opKia irwrra ra/utdi/rc? 
vaCoLfiev TpoLTjv ipifidkaKa, rot 8c viovrai 
^Apyos C5 LTnrofioTOP Koi *Aj(att8a icaXXtyvi^atica.** 
a>9 ^aro, piyijcei/ 8* 6 yiptav^ iKckevo-e 8* crai/)ot$ 

260 t7nrov5 Jcvyw/AG/at • rot 8' orpaXcIw? imdoPTO. 

iiv 8' a/o' c^t; IIpta/uLo?, /cara 8' 171/ta rcu/cv oiria'am* 
nap 8c ot *Avnjv(op TreptKoKXea fiijo'eTo hi^pov» 
TO! 8c 8ta ^Kai&v ireSCovS* V(P^ <MKca9 ttnrovs. 
dXX' ore 877 />' t/coi^o ftera Tpoia? icat *Axatoi^t 

266 cf Lirn(ov aTrofidvre^ im \66va irovkv^oreipai^ 
€9 fieacov Tpdoov koll 'A^atSi^ ianxwrnno. 
&pwTo 8* avTuc* cTTctra ai^a^ dvhp&v *Ayap,dfivwf, 



60 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS T. 



opKLa TTurra dew avvayov, Kpyfnjpi, 8c otvov 
270 fiUryov, arap fiaa-iXevmp vhwp irrl X€V>a^ ^€vw. 
*ATp€t8ri^ 8c ipva-a-dfiei/o^ xeipeari /id;(aipai/, 
^ ot Trap iuf>€(}^ /leya KovXeoi^ alh/ axapTO, 
apvZv €K KCf^XcW rd/ive Tpi\a^ * avrap eneira 
KijpvK€^ Tpdoiv Kot *K\ajL&v veifica/ dpCaroi^. 
276 ToiiTiv 8* ^ATpet&Tj^ fieydy cv^cto, x^^P^^ ava<r)(<m 
" Zcv ndrep, ^ihr/ffei^ fieSetov, KvBicrTe fieyurret 

ical irorafici Koi yaux, Kal ot virivepde Kafiovras 
dvOpamov^ tlwo-Oop, art? iiriopKov Ofioacrg, 
280 vft€t9 fidprupoi core, if>v\d<ra'er€ 8* op/cta irurrd. 

avro5 eTreiff* *EX6^i/ ix^TCD Kal icnjfiaTa Trdvra, 
^fi€i^ 8* CI' vqeo'a'i vedfieOa irovTOTropoLo-LV • 
€1 8c K* *A\€^ai/Spov KTeivji ^oj/dos MeveXao^, 

285 Tp5a5 eireiff 'EXcinyr /cat icnjiiara irdpr dnoSowoL 
TLfi^p 8' 'Apycibw diTOTivifiep, rjv riv ioiKei/, 
rj rc #cat Icrcrofiivoicri fier dpOpdnoLori TreXyjTau 
et 8* £i/ c/Aoi Tt/i'^i/ TLpia/JLo^ TLpidfioLo rc 7rar8c9 
riveiv ovk i0€\(oa'Lv 'AXc^di/8poto -wccroi^o^, 

290 avrap iyo} koI enevra fiaxyjcofiai elveKa Troivr}^ 
aZ0L fi€i/(i)v, Ci6>9 KC rcXo9 iroXc/ioio klxcuo.** 

^ KoX diro oToiidxov^ dpvZv rdfie irqkii xoKk^* 
Kal T0V5 fi€P KaT€07jK€v ewl xdovo^ da-TTaipovras, 
Ovfiov hevofievovs ' dno yap fiepo^ ctXcro x^^^'fos' 

295 olvov 8* iK KpyiTTjpo^ affwa-a-ofiepoi Bendea-criv 
eKx^ov, 7j8* evxom'o Oeoi; alevyei/iTrjo-w. 
£8c 8c Ti9 etweaKev *Aj(at5i/ rc Tp(o(av rc • 
Zcv /n;8urTC fieyta'Te, Kal dddt/aroL 0€ol dXXoi, 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK III. 



61 



imrorepot irporepoi inrep opKia munji/eiav, 
i^^fioo a-(f> iyK€<f>aKos x^^^^ o&o$, 
avrSv KoX T€K€CiiVf akoxoi S* aXkoixri Safieiep/^ 

&9 e^ai^A ovS* apa ird a^uf iir€Kp<uaiv€ KpopUav. 
rotcrt 81 AapBaviBrj^ TLpiapo^ fiera fivOov eeiirey • 
" K€KkvT€ fi€v, T/)G>C5 Kot ivKirqfiiZ^^ 'A^atot • 

306 iy rot iyoiv cljfit Trpori ^Vkiov '^vefioearaav 

axff, inei ov ttoi Thja'Ofi iv 6<f>dakiiot(riv opauaOauL 
fiapvdiieuov ^iXoV vix>v aprfuf>i\q) MG/€\d<p • 
Zev9 /lev TTOV ro ye otSe /cat aOavaToi Oeol aXXoi» 
6inroTip<o Oavaroio tcXo? iretrptapAvov iarlv^ 

810 ^ pa Kol h hi^pov apva^ dero laroOeo^ ^ci^, 

8* ap^ IfioLW avTW, Kara 8' iji/ta Teu/ei/ oTriaa^* 
Trap 81 ot *AvTijvo}p irepiKOiKXia firjo'ero 8ixf>pov. 
TO! /t€v ap* dxlfoppoi irporl "^IXlov amviovro • 
TBicra>/> 8^ Jlpidfioto ndi^ Kal 87o9 '08v(r(rcv$ 

815 xSipov i^kv irp&TW hie/juirpeov, avrap eTreira 
Khjpov^ hf KweQ xoKktip^ irdWai^ cXd»^€S, 
omrorepos Btj trpocrOej/ d^iy) \d\K€ov €Y)(0%. 
Xaot 8* yiprja'aino OeoTs t8c x^^P^^ dvia^ov • 
58c 8^ Tt9 corccTKo/ ^AxaL&v TC Tp(6ci}v re • 

820 •* Zc5 Trdrep, ^iSrjffeif fieSia^v, KvStxTre fieyicrre, 
omrorepo^ rdhe €pya fier dfi^TipoLoriv €0rjK€P, 
Tov 8o5 dirO(f>0CiJL€i/ov hvvai Sofiou ''Ai8o9 cto"G), 
'qfiip 8* aS ^iXoTT^ra koX opKia mora ya/ea-Oai.** 
&5 dp €^w, TToXXci/ 81 fteya? Kopvdaioko^ ^EiCTwp 
* 825 opoan/ * Ilapio^ 8^ ^0019 €K Kkfjpo^ opavaei^. 

tmrot depa'tiroSe^ koX TrotKiXa t€v\€ €K€ito • 
avrdp o y d/i^* Sfiourtv iSvo'ero reox^a koXcI 
Sibg *AXI^ai/8po99 *BX^i^9 7rd(n9 TjvKOfiOLO. 



62 



OMHPOY lAIAAOS T. 



330 Ki^ifuSa^ fiev rrpciTa irepl KVTjfijf(np €0rjK€P, 
Kokd^, apyvpeoiciv eiria^vpioi^ apapvias • 
Sevrepov av OtiprjKa irepi anjOeao'Lv ^w€p 
olo KacriyvriTovo AvKaovo^, rfpfLoae 8' avr^. 
d/x<^l 8* ap' (ofjLOLO'LV fiaXero ^l<I>os apyvpoijXov, 

335 ^d\K€ov, aurap eneiTa aaKo^ pjeya re o-Tifiapov re. 
Kparl 8' in i(f>0Lfi(o Kvpirjv ivrvKTov edrfKO/, 
linrovpiv • heivov 8c Xotfyo^; KaffvirepOev evevo^, 
etXero 8* aKKifLov eyxo^, o oi wakdfjL7)<f>Lv dprjp^iv. 
ct)S 8' avTtos Ma/iXao^ aprjvo<i €VT€* €^vv€v. 

340 oi 8* iirel oZv iKarepdof ofiiXov da^pijx^V^^^* 
€5 fiiccov Tpdcjv Kat 'A^^atcSj/ iaTLXO(ovTO 
Seivov SepKOfjLCPOL • Odfifio^ 8* ex^v eicropooivra^ 
Tp<od^ ff LTnroSdfiov^ kol ivKvrjpLiha*; 'A^atovg. 
Kai p iyyvs crqT'qv SiafierprjrS ivl X^PV 

345 ceiovT cy^eias, dXXijkoia'u/ Koreovre. 

irpocrOe 8' ^AXe^avSpo^ npoteL SoXixoaKiov ey^o^, 
Koi ^akep ^ArpetSao Kar dcnrLha irdvToa i.i(rqv • 
ovS' €pprj^€v j(aXxo5, dveyvdfL^dri 8c oi dlxf^y/ 
do-trihi iv Kparepfj. 6 Sk 8cvT€po9 &pvvTO ^aXfcoI 

350 ^ATpetSris Mei/ekao^, eTrev^dfievo^ All irarpL • 

" ZcC dva, So9 TLcacOaL o fie wporepo^ KaK iopyei/t 
8lov ^Ake^avSpov, kol c/x^5 vtto X^P^^ SafirjvaL, 
o(f>pa rt9 epplyrjCL kol oijfLyovtov dvdpdTrcjv 
^^LvohoKov KaKOL pe^aL, o K€J/ <l>iX6TriTa TTapd(rxT[l** 

355 'Jj pa KOL d/jLrrenakcjp npoteL SoXlxocklov ey^o?, 
Kai fidke TlpLa/jLiSao Kar ao"7rt8a irdvTOiT iLorjv. 
8ta fiki/ do-TTiSos 'JjXOe (f>aeLvfjs ofipLfiov eyxos, 
Kal 8td 0d)pr)Ko<; 7roXv8aiSdXov 'qp-qpeLoro • 
dm-LKpv^ he Trapal Xandprjv SLdfiriO'e ^''TcSm 

360 iyx^^ ' o 8* iKkLvdrj kol okevaTo idjpa fiekaivw. 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK IIL 



7r\rj^€P aj/a(rxpfi€uo<: KopvOos ^oKov • a/jL<^i 8* ap* avr^ 
rpixOd re koX Terpaxda hiarpv^v tKir^cre ^€ip6^. 
'Arpei&ri^ 8* ^fioi^ev ihiov et? ovpavov evpvv • 

365 " Zev Trarcp, ov Tt9 (reio Oe&v oXocoTepo^ aXXo9 • 
17 T iifxifiriv TLaaaOaL *AX€^av8pov KaKory/Tos • 
vvv 8c /lot & ^eipecciv ayy) Ik 8c fioi ey^o? 

yi^X^V 'n'akdiM7j(})LV iraiciov, ovhk hdfiao'aa** 
7] Koi C7rat£a9 Kopvdo^ Xdfiev imrohao'eir)^, 

370 cX#c€ 8* CTTiarpa/fa? /i^cr' evKinjfjLiSa^ 'A^^atovs • 
ay^c 8c /jtti/ 7roXvKc<rro9 i/ias aTraXi^j' vtto heipTjv, 
09 ot VTT* dvOepewvo^ o^cv? riraTo rpv^akeiy}*;, 
Kai vv KG/ elpvaaa/ re Kat darrerop rjpaTO ^80$, 
ct /A^ ap* o^y POTjae Ato9 dxrydrrfp *A(f>po8Lrri, 

375 17 01 pr)^€P ifjidirra fioo^ T<^t KTafia/oio • 

^cun] 8c Tpv(f>d\eia dfi ecrirero X^V^ ^^X^%' 
7771' /LLCi' eireiff' rjpcos fier ivKvyj/jLiSas 'A^atov^ 
/5a|f' cm8a/7;o"a9, KOfiKrav 8* ipCrfpe^ eTaipoL • 
avrdp 6 aiff ifropovcre KaTaKrdfieuai fxeveawun/ 

380 eyx^t x^X/cctft). Toi/ 8' i$7jpnai* 'A<^po8iT7j 

^cta /laA a>9 tc c^co^, c#caAin/r€ o ap -^cpt TroAky, 
Kao o elc €v uaKafLOi cucooci tcqiaemi. 
avrrj 8' aS^ *'Ekiiriqv KoXioviT U. ryjv 8c Kixavcif 
irvpyfo c<^* vtlnjXS, nepl 8c Tpa)al aXt? ^o"ai/. 

385 x^tpi 8c v€KTap€ov iavov iru/a^e Xafiovaa, 
yprjl 8c /jtti' iiKvuL iraXaiyevii irpoa-deLTra^, 
eipoKOfKp, 7} ol AaKeSai/jLOvt vaveroioaig 
jjaKeip elpia KoXd, fidXia-Ta 8c fiiv ^iXeecKO/ • 
fiLV ieiaafieyri npoa'e(f>(ov€e h7 'A(f>pohtT7) • 

390 " 8cvp* 10*, *AXcfaz/8po9 o"C KaXei olKovhe vi^aOai. 
Keivo^ o y ep 0aXdfi<^ Kat htvayroicn Xc)(c<r<rt>', 



64 



OMHPOY lAIAi^OS r. 



KoKKet 76 arCkfioyv koX eliiaai^ * ovSe ice j^aiyf^ 
avhpl iiaxqa-dfLG/ov top y ikOew, oXXa 
€p)(€(Tff» rje ^opoio veov hjyovra Kadi^ew** 

396 0)5 <f>dTO, rg 8' apa Ov/jlov h/l anjdecro'f^v opivof • 
Kai p a»9 ovv ivor/o'e Oea^ ircpiKaWca Beipriv 
(mjOed ff i/JLepoci/Ta koll ofifiara /lapfiaipovra, 
0dfi^a-€v r dp* cTrctra, enos r e^ar* €#c r ovofLoXfi^ 

I " haifLoviy), rC fie Tavra XcXaiiEai 'qneponelkuf ; 
Moo ^ irg fi€ irporipoi irokioiv eh vaiofia/doji/ 
a^Ets ^ ^pvyiris ^ MyoPLr/s ipareiv^^, 
€1 ri5 rot Kai KeWt ^lXos iieponcov dvOpcmov, 
ovveKa hrf vw Slov *A\€^(w8pov Ma^cXcio? 
viKiqcra^ iffeXei crrvyepriv ipJe oiKaS* dyecOox • 

405 Tow€Ka hrf vw ScSpo hoko^poviovcra Trapearrj^. 
^ao Trap* avrop iovca, de&v 8* drroeiK^ KeXevOov, 
fL7/8' cTi a-ouri, TToSea-a-LV vTroorpo/fCia? ^OXv/xttcm^, 
dXX* aUl nepl Kelvop oi^ve Kai i (^uXacro-e, 
eis o K€ cr ^ d\o\ov 7rot7jo"€Tat ^ o yc 8ovX7;i'. 

410 Kticre 8* cywi/ ovk ci/lli, ve/ieacrrjTov 8c kcj/ cit;, 
Keivov Tropavviovca Xej^os ' Tpa>at 8€ /x' 6nia'a'<a 
iraa-ai fKo/JLTjcovTai, €)(q) 8* aj(€* aKpira 0vfjL^** 

rrjp ^okwaafxivT) irpoaeifxii/ee 8? *Kil>pohirq • 
" fL epede, axerXirj, ilt) ^(ctxrafievr] ae fjiedeUa, 

416 t39 8c <r dnexO'^po) a>5 I'w cfcirayXa <^iX7y(ra, 
fiiira-tf 8' ifi^OTcpcDv fjLTjTia-ofiai, c^^ca Xxrypd, 
Tpdcjn/ Kai AavaZv, aif 8c kci/ KaKov oirov SXr/ai.^ 

&9 e^ar*, cScwrci/ 8* *EXa^, Ato? c/cycyavia, 
jS-^ 8c Kara<rxofi€V7i iav^ dpyrjrL ^actv^, 

420 (Tty^, iracra? 8c Tpct>a9 Xa^cr • ^px^ 8ai/x(MV. 

at 8* or* 'AXcfaz/8/30io 8o/jlo>' nepiKaXXe* Ikovto^ 
afjuf>LVoXoi ph/ CTTCtra doois ctti c/yya rpdnovTO, 



HOMER'S ILIAD, BOOK III. 



Tj 8' €19 v^opo^v doKafiov kU Sea yvuaiK^v. 
TQ 8* apa 8i<f}pov iXovaa <^tXofi/A€t8'^9 *A<f}poBiryi 

425 avrC ^AXe^di/BpoLO d^a KaTedrjKe <^€)[>ov(ra • 
a/Oa KafflC *EXei^, Kovprj At09 aiyto;(oto, 
oorcrc iraXti/ ^Xu/acra, irocriv 8* ijvtirairc ftv^oi * 
" rjlkvO^^ eK iroXe/xoV • 019 a><^X€9 avroff* oXeadai, 
avSpl 8a/A€i9 Kpar€p(o, 09 cfto9 irporcpo^ vom^ 'Jjev. 

430 /jici' 8^ irpti^ y* €^X^' aprqiif>tXov M ci/eXaov 
(T^ TC )8tj7 Kal 'X^pcri kol eyx'^^ if>eprepo^ elvcu • 
aXX' ti^c TrpoKoXeaa'aL aprqiifiiKov Ma/4\aov 
i^avTL^ fiax^caa-Oai ivavrCov. aXXa cr eyc5 yc 
iravecOoA fceXo/xat^ /x'l^Se ^avd^ M €i/€Xa6> 

436 avTifiiop iroXc/xov iroXe/ii^eLV ij8c iia)(€(Tdai 

a<ppao€(o^, liT) ir6J9 Ta;( vtt awov oov^t oafMTjji^. 

Trfv 8k Jldpis fivdoicriv d/x6i)8o/x€i/o9 irpoa-ieimv • 
*' /i'jf /x€, ywat, ^^aXcirourti/ oi^etSccrt Ovfiov Ivimrt. 
vvv fikv yap Ma/eXao^ evlKyja-ei/ aw *A0ijvg, 

440 Kewov 8* aurt9 eyco • irapa yap 0€ot elcri kg! TipXv. 

dXX* aye 8^ ^tXoTTjrt TpaweCoiMO/ evvrjOevre • 
- V- ov yd/> ircS irorc ft* 586 y' cpo9 <f>piva^ dfi^efcdXin/ra^i 
ov8* arc <rc irp&rov AaKehaifiovos ipaT€vur\^ 
iirXeov apird^a^ Iv irovronopoi^crL i/€C<rcrti/, 

446 injaoi 8* iv YLpavdjj ifiLyr/p (l>iX6rrjTL Kal evtrg, 
aeo vw e/oa/xat koI /le yXvKV9 tiMcpos atpct.** 
^ pa Kal oipx^ Xe^oaSe kuop • d/ia 8* elirer d/cotrt9< 

TO) ftci/ dp* €1/ TpriTolct, KaT^vvaaOev Xcj^cccrcrti^, 
*AT/)€t8i;9 8* di/* ofitXoi^ e^oira Oyjpl ioiKCJS, 

460 €t irov icraOp^ceiep ^AXe^a^Bpov deoeiSea, 

dXX* ou T19 Swaro Tpdoij/ KXevrwp r imKovpoiP 
Sei^ai ^AXi^avhpov tot apyii^iKto Mei/eXd^. 
ov jikv yap (f^iXanfTt y iK€v0avov, ct T19 iSotro* 



66 



OMHPOY IAIAA02 V. 



Lcov yap iT^iv iraci^p airrj^O^To Kyjpl ixeKaurg. 

466 rotcrt 8c Kai ixereem^v dva^ avhpS)v 'Aya/xc/ww • 
" K€KKvr€ [Mcv, T/>£c5 Kal AdphavoL 178' imKovpou 
viicyf [xev 817 ^ati/er' iprjCif>iKov M ci/cXaov • 
v/xci^ 8* ^Apyetrjv *E\€P7ji/ Kal Knjiiaff* aft* avrg 
cic8orc, fcat TLfiriv aTTOTLVcfiev, rjv tiv eoiKO/, 

460 1^ TC Kal ia-o-oficpouri fier avOpc^noici mXrjTau** 
o}£ e^aT ^Arpethrjs, cm 8* yveov aWot *A;(aiou 



COMMENTARY. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 

1-7. Prooemium : The wrath of Achilles, from its very heginningy and the 
destructive consequences which followed in accordance with the will of Zeus, 
This is the principal theme of the Iliad, The First Book serves as an 
introduction to the whole poem. It narrates the story of the strife between 
Achilles and Agamemnon, and the decree of Zeus, which is made on the 
intercession of Thetis. — The events narrated in A occupy 21 days. See 
§7 a. 

1. |&i|viv: wrath, lasting anger, the memorem iram of Verg. Aen. 
i. 4. Cf 81, 247, 488. This receives prominence as being most impor- 
tant for the subject of the poem. — The definite article is ""ot needed in 
early Greek. The connection decides, as it does in Latin, whether it 
should be used in translation. See § 42 g. — 0cd: i.e. the Muse. Homer 
does not assign special names and offices to different muses. See on B 
484. Cf, SvSpa fwi cwcttc /aovou a 1. — For the following caesural pause, 
see § 58 a,f, — Ui^Xtii^m [JJrfkrjiaj8ov or Hi^eiScn;] : for the genitive-end- 
ing, see § 34 c. This adjective is called a * patronymic,' and is often used 
as a proper name. See § 39. — 'AxkXi|os ['AxtXXccDs] : for the ending, see 
§ 23 c. Homer often drops one of two doubled consonants. See § 59 rf 

2. oiXo|Uvi|v: destructive, deadly, cf Milton Par. Lost i. 2, * forbidden 
fruit . . . whose mortal taste | Brought death into the world.' This is put 
in a kind of apposition with fiffviv, as if it were an afterthought. The 
idea is amplified in the following relative clause, cf 10, B 227 ; see § 12 e. 
— |ivp^: countless; not a numeral in Homer. — For the * elision' of a, 
see § 28 a. — For the * hiatus,* allowed when the final vowel has been 
elided, see § 27 g. — 'AxaioCs : often used for all the Greeks, see § 5 a. — 
aX-yfa [aXyrf] : i.e. the defeats caused by the absence of Achilles from the 
conflict. — For the uncontracted form, see § 24. — c0t|kcv: caused (as T 
321, see § 17), nearly equiv. to rc^xc below, or to the Attic itroCrfo-ci/, 

3. iroXXAs : the second clause of the relative sentence is closely con- 
nected with the first, since iroXXas repeats the idea of fivpui, while the 
third clause is added in the form of a contrast, avrovs ktX, — l^OCftovs 
[Attic Kpartpds'] : the feminine form i<l>OLfm^ is used by Homer only of 
persons. See § 38 a. — "A'CSi irpotai|rcv : sent off to Hades, a vigorous expres- 



2 



COMMENTARY. 



sion for a violent death, as E 190, Z 487. Cf, multos Danaum de< 
mittimus Oreo Verg. Aen, ii. 398. For the use of irpo, cf, wpo ijxe 195. 
— "AiSi [*Ai8iy] : a * metaplastic ' form of *Ai%;9, which in Homer is 
always the name of a persoit, the ruler of the nether world. 

4. ijp^v : Irave warriors. The word had not acquired the meaning of 
heroes in the English sense (§ 17). — a^vs: themselves, ue. their bodies 
as contrasted with their souls. They would have cared less about the 
rites of burial, if they had not considered the body to be the man himself. 

— jX«pia [Attic af>9rayi7v] : 5oo^y, c/. can ib us data praeda Latinis| 
alitibusque Verg. AenAx. 485 f . For the preceding hiatus, see § 27 6. 

— Tci^f Kvvcoviv : since the bodies often had to lie imburied, cf. B 393. 
Dogs are the scavengers of the East. Cf, * Him that dieth of Ahab in 
the city the dogs shall eat ; and him that dieth in the field shall the fowls 
of the air eat * 1 Kings xxi. 24, * And the Philistine said to David, "Come 
to me and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air, and to the beasts 
of the field " ' 1 Sam, xvii. 44. To be left unburied was a dreaded fate : 
so Hector at the point of death besought Achilles not to allow the dogs 
to devour him, X 339. — Tt Ox« [^tcvx^] • omission of the augment, 
see § 43 a. — k^c^v [icvcriV] : for the ending, see § 36 h, 

5. oUavoCo-i [oictfKOis] : the long form of the dative is more frequent in 
Homer than the dative in -as. See § 35 rf. — SaCra [Attic iofrrqv] : here 
of the food of brutes ; cf B 383. — Atot . . . PovX^ : instead of Aio$ fuyaXov 
&a PovXds* This is joined parenthetically (§ 21) to the preceding rela- 
tive clause. The will of Zeus was accomplished in the consequences oi 
the wrath of Achilles. Cf, * Such was the will of heaven,' Milton Par, Lost 
ii. 1025. — iriXfUro [ctcXcito] : for the form, cf, vcikciW B 243, Tireioirrcs 
B 536 ; see § 47 ^. — povX^ : willy cf PouXofua, This corresponds to the 
$€\rffm (BiXfo) of the New Testament (ycvj^di/Ta) to Btkrffm <rov) and to 
the irpoaipto'is of Aristotle. 

6. ov ktX. : since first, since once ; the starting-point for fajviv ovXo- 
IJLfvrjv, This expression takes the place in Homer of the prose cttci aTra^, 
CTTCt Taxf-ora, cf 235. irpStrov and irpCrra are used adv. with little differ- 
ence of meaning, cf, 276, 319. — tA : for the short vowel lengthened before 
the following consonants, see § 59 /. — 8ia(rH|Ti)v [8i€<rnfn7v] IpCo-avrc : con- 
tending separated, i.e. contended and separated, parted in strife (^f>i$)* 

7. 'ATpft8t)s : of four syllables, see § 39 /. For the use of the patro- 
nymic, see § 39 b. For the genealogy of Agamemnon, son of Atreus, see 
p. ix. of the Vocabulary. He is described by Helen as * a good king and 
a brave warrior* (F 179). — avci{ &v8p6v: elsewhere precedes a proper 
name ; only here is it found after a patronymic. It is generally applied 
to Agamemnon. — For the < apparent hiatus,' see §§ 27 /, 32. — Stos: gocU 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



3 



Hke, glorious (cvyen/s), a standing epithet of Achilles and of Odysseus. 
No special excellence of character is implied. Observe the metrical 
adaptation to the names of these two heroes, allowing the ' bucolic diaere- 
sis/ after the fourth foot, see § 58 t ; c/. ^t/3o9 *A7roAX(Dv, IXoAXas *A$i^, 
Sib9 'A;(iX\€vs closes the verse in Homer more than 50 times. 

8-52. The injured Chryses, The avenging Apollo. The scene opens 
in the tenth year of the war before Troy (B 295). 

For the situation at the opening of the war, see § 6. 

8. risr &p : and who then f A question from the standpoint of the hearer, 
suggested by 6. Cf, * Who first seduced them to that foul revolt? — 
Th' infernal serpent,* Milton Par, Lost i. 33. Some god must have decreed 
the calamity; the Homeric theology recognized no blind chance. — IpiSt 
£uvli|Kc: brought together in strife. — (vvIi)kc [ctw^kc]: for the augment, 
see § 43 rf. — |fcdxco^ai : to contend, sc. iirUaaiv, cf. 304, B 377 f . For the 
explanatory inf., cf, fmvTcvea-Oai 107, ayctv 338, dmo-o-av B 108, cpi^c/tcvoi 
B 2147 See § 13 /; H. 951 ; G. 1533. 

9. AiiToi^t: cf 36. — For the inflection, see H. 197; G. 55. Ai;ro> 
seems to be a short form of La ton a, but the latter does not appear in 
Greek. Apollo was the mediate cause of the trouble, since the pestilence 
occasioned the quarrel. — o [outo?]: for the demonstrative use of the 
article, see § 42/. — pcuriXi|i : i.e. Agamemnon, ava^ dv8pa>v. — For the 
< dative of association,* see H. 772; G. 1177. For the form, cf 'A^iX^os 

10. voikroY : Attic voaxw, § 23 d. It is called Xoi/xot 61. — &vd vrpardv: 

up through the camp (cf, Kara arparw 318), as the plague spread from tent 
to tent. Cf, 53. — cSpo-f : for the retention of <r after p, see § 48 c. — xaic^v : 
the adjective is explained by the following clause, the first word of which 
takes up the thought of the adjective. For the order of words, connect- 
ing Kcuc-jv with what follows, see § 11 j, — XaoC [Xcw] : soldiery, cf, T 186 
and Agamemnon's epithet iroifjirjv XeJav, B 243, shepherd of the people, 
Attic airtOvrja'Kov oi arpanSyroLi. 

11. Tov Itovtov tov] XpiioTjv : that Chryses, well known to the hearers 
from stories or other songs. Nowhere else in Homer is the article used 
with a proper name. — i|TC|icurcv: slighted, — afnfrfjpa: receives prominence 
from its rhythm and position, almost equiv. to "though he was" etc. He 
is called Upw (the Attic word) below. — This verse has a * spondee ' in the 
fifth foot, and hence is called * spondaic/ See § 57 k, 

12. 00^ : cf. vrpjol fOKviropounv 421. A standing epithet of the ships 
even when they were on shore, § 12 a. — iirl vfjos [vavs] : ue, to the camp, 
where the ships were drawn up on land, cf B 688. — For the position of 
the preposition between the adjective and noun, cf, 15, 26 ; see § 11 m. 



4 



COMMENTARY. 



13. Xvo^fuvot : to release for himself to ransom. The active is used of 
him who receives the ransom, 20, 29. — M^arpa [Ovyartpa] : for the form, 
see H. 188, D; Good. 276. — Homer knows her only by her patronymic 
XpvaufCs (111, see § 39 g) daughter of Chryses, — ^/p«v: bringing with 
him, probably on a wagon. — «ircpclo-i Airotva: bullion, (either of gold, 
silver, or copper,) or vessels of precious metal, or clothing. 

14. oW|t|uir 'AvdXXwvPt: cf ApoUinis inf ula, Yerg. Aen, ii. 430. 
This ribbon, or chaplet, of white wool, marked the priest's official char- 
acter. He came imder the god^s protection, but as a suppliant carried 
the fillet, instead of wearing it. Cf laurumque manu vittasque 
ferentem | Chrysen, Ovid Ars Am. ii. 401. — cKtipdXov: he was the 
Archer Apollo. For similar epithets, see § 22 c. — For the loss of quan- 
tity in the final diphthong before an initial vowel, cf 17 ; see § 59 ik. 
— 'AvdXXttvos: for the length of the first syllable, as 21, 36, etCy see 
§59rf. 

15. XRvo'^ip [x^jww] : it was adorned with golden studs or nails. See 
on 219, B 45 ; cf 246. So the soul of the seer Teiresias had a '^(pva'tap 
cricTTrrpoy in Hades. — XP^^^^ ^ P^^'^^^"^^^ ^ syllables, (cf 1, and 
see § 25), and is thus metrically like the Attic form. — dml o-K^irrpY : on 
a staff. Construe with arififwr excov. Equiv. to Attic iirl (ncrprrpw. 
For the dative, c/I § 55/; H.792, 1; G. 1196. — Princes, judges, priests, 
and heralds carried a-Kvprrpa as symbols of authority. A aiaprrpov was 
placed in the hands of him who was about to address the assembly, as a 
sign that he 'had the floor,* cf 245, F 218, <rrrj Sk fkicrQ ayopy • atcrprrpov 
Sc ci ifiPaXe x^^p^ | ic^p^ P ^7 f • The judge in an Athenian court had 
a pcLKTtfpuu The Spartans also carried stout staffs, and Athenian gentle- 
men carried canes. — nmvras: the bard's hearers, easily made for them- 
selves the necessary limitations for such general expressions. The priest's 
errand was to the army and its leaders. 

16. *ArpctSa ^» [Svo]: for with the dual, cf AtavT€ Svo) B 406, 
F 18, XiovTt Swi), E 554. This dual form is infrequent. — Menelaus, king 
of Sparta (B 586), as husband of Helen, is associated with his brother 
Agamemnon ; cf B 408. See § 6 a. — Koo-ft^ropc : KoafUia is used in the 
sense of the later rdxr(T<ay cf B 554, F 1 ; see § 17. 

17. The usual introduction to a speech (§ 12 h) is omitted. — For the 
use of the speaker's very words, instead of indirect discourse, see § 11 c. 
— cvKW||it8<s : a standing epithet of the Achaeans (§ 12 &). In historical 
times, Herodotus mentions greaves as worn by the Lycians in the army 
of Xerxes. 

18. 6coC: monosyllable by <synizesis,' see § 25. — Cf di tibi dent 
capta classem deducere Troia, Horace Sat. ii. 3. 191, 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



5 



19. XIpuLifcOio [Jlpidfjjov] : for the form, see § 35 a. — ie6\w : for the 
length of the last syUable, see § 59 L — oCkoSc: homeward^ always of the 
return to Greece, not like olxovSe into the house. See § 33 d, 

20. iraCSa : made prominent because of his love for his daughter ; 
instead of the c/xot 8c which is expected in contrast with v/uv yJv 18. — 
Xvo-ot: corresponds to Sotw Cf. 13. — "As I pray that you may be 
victorious and have a safe return, so may ye restore to me " etc, Cf. the 
prayer of Priam for Achilles, <rv Sc TtavS aTromto, koi tXBoi^ \ arpf cs mrpiSa 
yatav O 556 f. May*st thou enjoy these gifts and in safety reach thy native 
land, where the return of Hector's body is the condition implied for the 
prayer. The infinitive is here used for the imperative, but in an optative 
sense (like aei8c 1), not as a command ; cf the infinitive and imperative 
in parallel clauses, 322 f., T 459. — xa r ftiroiva: the priest points to the 
g^ts which he brought with him. 

21. a|6)icvoi [Attic a-efiofievoi] ktX, : a prime motive for granting the 
request. The Achaeans were to honor the god in the person of his priest. 

— The spondee in the fifth foot (see § 57 A) gives an emphatic close to 
the sentence, cf 11, 157, 291, 600. 

22. circv^^fitio-av : for the usual iwrlvrfa-av, because of the religious fear 
which was required by the priest. It is followed by the infinitive as 
bemg equiv. to CKcXcvcrav CTreu^iy/ioiWcs they hade with pious reverence ; 
cf B 290. 

23. atScCtrOoi : repeats a^oficyoi. — Upfja [tcpca] : equivalent to aprjrrfpa 
11. — oyXoa: an important epithet, introducing a motive for the action. 

— ScxOoi [Attic Si^curOai] : 2d aor. inf. from Sixoimi, see § 53. 

24. aXX* a*K ktX, : a sharp contrast to aXXoi fiiv, giving prominence to 
the negative. But not to the son of Atreus. — 'ArpcCS^]: receives further 
emphasis from its position immediately before the pause of the verse. 
See § 11 h. Thus in the preceding verse ieprja is contrasted with airoim, 
as Ovyarpa 13, and the Xvarcu re 20 with Zix^frSoJU — 6v(i^ : local, in heart. 
See § 12 g, — This verse in prose would be dXA* ^Xrptl^ ovx rjodri. 

25. KaKfis : harshly. Cf the use of KaKrfv 10. — ai^Cci : for the form, as 
from a verb in -cw, see § 52 a ; for the omission of the augment, see § 43 a. 

— Homer is fond of using the imperfect to describe an action as in prog- 
ress (see § 19 A), cf rcvp^c 4. — Kparcp^v : strong, stem, — tirl u^fOov f rcXXcv : 
laid upon him his command, — cirC : consti'ue with creAXcv, see § 55 a, 6. • — 
fit^ov : had not yet received the idea of fiction which is contained in the 
English myth. It and Itto? (216) are often used for the Attic Xoyos which 
is found but twice in Homer. 

26-32. Agamemnon first rejects the admonition to fear the god and then 
refuses the request itself 



6 



COMMENTARY. 



26. i&ij #crX. : see to it that 1 do not, let me not, etc. This prohibitive 
use of fiT^ with the Ist pers. sing, is rare. — KoCX<Qo-iv [#cotX(Us] : for the 
form, cf. occtfvourt 5 ; see § 34 e. — yipo-C [mwt] : for the form, see § 23 a. 

— Kix<^ C'^^X^] ' aorist subjunctive from Kixavo, § 51 d. 

27. avTis (dvra: returning, cf, itoXlv vXayxOhrras 59, So/tcvoi ttoXlv 116. 

28. yA\ TOi icrX. : lest perhaps etc., adds to the preceding command 
. the result that was to be feared if the command were disregarded. 
' — ®* XP*^I*TI' ^ used, not firj, since the negative and the verb 
. form but one idea, he useless, of no avail; cf 566, T 289. — o-Kifirrpov 

ictX. : ** thy priestly dignity." 

29. irp(v: sooner, adv. with ^ttcktiv, with strengthening Kot even; almost 
much rather, — For the animated * adversative asyndeton,' see § 15 c. — 

[avnyv] : her, — {mtrw: shall come upon. 

30. i{|uWp^ : the familiar our of the household. — cv "Afryci : i.e. in 
Peloponnesus (which name is not found in Homer), "Apyo? 'Axomkov, not 
HeXajcryiKov "Apyoi (Thessaly, B 681), nor the city "Apyo^ where Diomed 
ruled (B 559). — This clause is in apposition with the first clause of the 
line, and it is repeated again by rrfXoOi irarfytfi {juucpav oltto TrarptSos]. 
The pause is very distinct after oiK<u^ although it is not marked by punc- 
tuation. See on 'ArpctSjy 24. 

31. larroY ciroixo|Uvi|v : going to and fro before the loom, plying the loom. 
The Greek women stood as they wove at their upright looms. Weaving 
was the principal occupation of the female slaves. — Xlxos : acc. of * limit 
of motion,* only here with avrvaito, approach, share the couch. See on 254. 

— AvTidtto-av [_dvTtmrav] : for the form, see § 47 c. 

32. tOi, cp^6ilc : for the ' explanatory asyndeton,' see § 15 6. — o-o^rfpos : 
more safely, sc. than if thou shouldst refuse to go. This independent use 
of the comparative is frequent in Homer. — cSs : in order that, here follows 
the emphatic word (§ 11 Z) ; so ort, o, o<^pa, and iva may have the second 
place in the clause. Cf. B 125. — For #c€ with the subjunctive, see H. 882 ; 
Goodwin 1367. — [''^] = for the uncontracted form, see §44 h. 
veofmi is equivalent to tpyofMai. 

33. Cf 568, r 418.— rScurcv: "fear came upon him." For the 
•inceptive aorist,' cf. firj 34, ixwraro 64, Bdfxrrfat 92, rapPyaavrt 331, 
&iKpva-as 349 ; see H. 841 ; Goodwin 1260. Observe the change to the 
imperfect. For the quantity of the first syllable, cf. 406, 568, T 418 ; see 
§ 59 A. — o yiptfv : o yepoios 35. 

34. pi) [UPrf] : set out, cf B 183. For the accent, cf. «^ B 37 ; see 
§ 43 6. — iiKiw : sc. in terror at the harsh words. 

35. iroXXd : earnestly, cognate acc. used as adv. with rfpSro. See § 56 
and on 78. — &irdvcvOc km&v : i.e. as he left the Achaean camp. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



7 



36. t6v [pv] : relative pronoun, see § 42 i. 

37. KXiiei : for the forms of this verb, see H. 489 D 30. — |m« [/xou] : 
for this contraction, from fieo, see H. 37 D ^. — &fryvpdTo{c : the use of the 
epithet instead of the name gives a touch of intimacy to the address. Odys- 
seus thus addresses Athena as yXavKcoTri, and Athena addresses Apollo as 
CKocpye. See § 12 b. The gods* instruments are of precious metal even 
where the metal is not best adapted to the work, c/. E 724, 731, and see 
on 611. — Xpv<n)v, KCXXav: Mysian cities, seats of the worship of Apollo, 
on the gulf of Adramyttium. They disappeared before the classical 
period. Chrysa was the home of the priest, who received his name from 
it. — a|jL^ipcPv|Kas : "dost guard." The figure is taken from a beast 
standing over (bestriding) its young in order to protect it, cf. E 299. 
Cf, Gradivumque patrem Geticis qui praesidet arvis Verg. 
Aen. iii. 35. 



38. TfvlSoio X c/". est in conspectu Tenedos, notissima 
fama | insula,\iives opum, Priami dum regna manebant 
Verg. Aen, ii. 21 f. — The genitive probably depends on the noun ava^ 
which is contained in dvacrcret?. — l+t : for the old ending -^t, see § 33 a. — 
dvoo-o^is : in its original meaning, art protecting lord. ^ao-tXevco is not 
used of the gods in Homer. 

39. SfiivOcO : S/uv^ev9 is a short, familiar form for 'S,fuv0o<l>06poif 
epithet of Apollo as the averter of the plague of field mice. — ct itotc : 
if ever, a form of adjuration. — x^^^*^* *proleptic,' to thy pleasure, lit. as 
a pleasing one. — lirl ipv^a : roofed over, i.e. completed, built. The early 
temples were of simple construction. The first temple of Apollo at 
Delphi was built of laurel boughs, according to the ancients. — The sup- 
pliant believes that he has made the god his debtor by his services, and 
he claims favors in return ; cf. 503 f . The gods themselves recognized 
this obligation. — vt|6v [vcwv] : Homer follows the so-called Attic second 
declension in but a few words. Cf. Xoxk 10. 

40. 8^: nearly equivalent to rj&fj. — Kara: construe with €Krja. — 
vCova : as covei*ed with fat, cf. 460. — (ttipCa : these and the synonymous 
fi^fxi are the thigh pieces, with more or less flesh, as cut from the firfpol 
(460) thighs of the victims, and sacrificed to the gods as burnt offerings. 
For thei details of a sacrifice, see 458 ff., B 421 ff. — iKt\a [cKavtra] : § 48 A. 

41. t68c i&oi kt\. : a formula, after which * this desire * is expressed by 
the opt. as here ; by the imv., as 456, 505, or by o5s with the optative. 

42. T(<rciav: the verb is placed first, as containing the sum of his 
desire. — AavaoC : used only of the Greek army in the Trojan war. But 
in the Iliad the poet uses *A;(aiot (the most frequently recurring designa- 
tion of the Greeks), *ApycuK or Aavooc, to suit the convenience of his 




8 



COMMENTARY. 



verse; see on 79, § 22 h. — fiKMcaxvlPfkemy]: the stem of the noun is 
fitXar, and the ending o-i, so the two sigmas are justified. See § 30/ 

44. M • • • Kop^VMV : as B 167, A 74. — ^ : set out The motion is 
continued in 6 ^ 171c 47. — OiXv|iiroio: Olympus in Homer is always the 
Thessalian mountain as home of the gods (not heaven itself) as is indi- 
cated by its epithets, dyam<^ 420 snoto-cappedy vi<^o€i9, fmKpo^ 402, iroXv- 
3€ipa9 499, iroA,v3rTv;(05. See on 195. But see dW^i; yXcuvKCnns *X$rprq \ 
OvXvfnrcvS oOi <^curt Belav dcr^aXcs ai£i | Ififjumu. ovr avifwiai rimer- 
a-erai . . . ourc xiwv imiriXvaTaj. ktX. f 41 ft, Athena departed to Olympus, 
where (men say) is the ever-Jirm seat of the gods. It is not shaken by toindsj 
nor does snow come nigh it, — Kop^vMV : construe with Kara. For its use 
for the summits of mountains, c/. B 167, 869. Cf, Kopa head; see H. 
216 D 8; G. 291, 16. — ici|p: accusative of specification, as rjrop, Ovfxw, 
4>p€va, all frequent with verbs of emotion (§ 12 g). — For this description 
of the plague, see Lessing as quoted in § 11 

45. «|u>vo'iv : dative of place, see § 19 a, equiv. to Attic ivl T<av (ofjuuv. 

— d|i^pc^a : i.e, closed both above and below as it hung on the shoul- 
der, see on B 389. The explanation of the lengthened ultima is uncer- 
tain. — Apollo as god of the bow always carries bow and quiver, cf, his 
words avvrfOe^ del ravra /Saord^eiv ifwC Eur. Ale, 40, it is my custom ever 
to hear this how. So he is often represented in works of art. 

46. c icXa«y(av : seems to represent to the ear the sound of arrows in the 
quiver, cf, \Cy(e /3ios A 125. Cf, tela sonant humeris Verg. Aen, iv. 149. 

47. airofi K^mfiivroi : avrov contrasts the god with his arrows (§§11 j\ 
42 d) , For the genitive absolute, see § 19 c, d, — t}ic : Attic gfci. — wktC: 
a time of dread. Cf, ^aOope ^atSi/i^ *E#cT(tfp | wkti Boy AraXavro^ vrunrui 
M 462 f ., Hector rushed in, like in countenance to swift night, * He on his 
impious foes right onward drove, | Gloomy as night,' Milton Par, Lost vi. 
831 f. Comparisons are a notable characteristic of Homer's style. They 
are less frequent in this First Book of the Iliad than elsewhere in Homer. 
Cf 359, B 87 ff., 147 ft,, 337 ff., 394 ff., 455-483. See § 14.— 4oiicift« 
[ctxcos] : for the inflection, see H. 492 ; G. 537, 2. 

48. (iCToC : into the midst of the camp. — C5v : an arrow, — It|kcv : Attic 
rjKey, from wy/u. See § 43 d, 

49. SciWj: attrib. with KXayyrj, Cf, horrendum stridens sa- 
gitta Verg. Aen, ix. 632. — •y^vcro: arose, was heard, — fioto: from the 
how, ablatival genitive (§ 19 a). 

50. ovpijas Kttl Kifvas : mules and dogs in the baggage train of the army. 

— yrt^x^oi attacked with his deadly missiles. — dp^ovs: swift, cf, rtHw 
apyauLinv dpybv to ra^u vpo(rayof>€vovrwv Diod. iv. 41. — The Attic might 
be TTpSiToy pkv rots ^/udvots iTr€$rfa Kat Tots rax&ri kvo-iv. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



9 



51. aMp : stronger than 8c, correlative with fiev 50. See on av B 768, 
§ 21 /. — cL^oto-i : the Greeks themselves, contrasted with their domestic 
animals. More emphatic than ^porotcrt or the Attic oafOptairoiS' — P^Xos: 
for the quantity of the ultima, see 59 j, — 4x<'"^vk4s: biting, sharp, cf. 
iTLKphv ouTTov A 118. — l^icCs : iterative in meaning, like ySoXAe fol- 
lowing. 

52. paXXc : shot, with emphatic position at the close of a sentence and 
beginning of a verse; cf, 143 f., 241, 296, 501, 506, 523, 526.— aUC: oct. 
— irvpckC ; plural since a new pyre was built each day. — vck^mv : so-called 
* genitive of material.' — This is a poetic form of the statement that mul- 
titudes perished from the pestilence. — 0a|Mta£ : predicate adjective, where 
an adverb might have been used. See § 56 a. 

53-100. Assembly of the Greeks, Speeches of Achilles and Calchas, 

53. 4wi||iap : cwea is a round number in Homer. Cf * Nine times the 
space that measures day and night | To mortal men,' Milton Par, Lost 
i. 50. — 4x*^^ • arrows are personified, cf, aXro 8* oiotos | o^vPfXi^, 
koJS^ ofukov imirTiirOai fjueveauviav A 125 f., eager to fly into the throng, 

54. ScKcCrg : dative of time. The article calls attention to this as 
the decisive day. — The adjective agrees with -^fiifyrf or rjoi implied in 
Iwrjfuip, Cf, the omission of ^01, fiovXrjv B 379, 3o/9av T 17, x^^^ 
vav r 126, TTvXecov T 263 ; and the use of neuter adjectives as substan- 
tives (see on 539). — S4: may stand after the second word in the clause 
since the first two words are so closely connected. — d^op^vSc: for the 
ending see § 33 d. The agora of the Achaeans was at the centre of 
their camp, a little removed from the sea, by the ships of Odysseus. The 
dyopi; in Homer was not yet degraded to be a market place, see § 17 ; it 
corresponds to the meeting place of the Athenian kKKk-qala, — KoXlovaro : 
caused to he summoned, cf. B 50. Other princes than the commander-in- 
chief had authority to call an assembly of the people. — This expresses 
picturesquely the prosaic iKK\rja-uiv iirovrfae. — For the <r<r, see § 48 a, 

55. : equivalent to Attic avrw, — literally, /or him. — M, ^pfo-l Ofjicf : 
put into (lit. upon) his heart. The Homeric Greeks did not think of the 
head as the seat of the intellect. — Xcvk<&Xcvos : frequent epithet of Hera 
(§ 12 6), not often of women, as T 121; cf. fiown^ 551. — '^pt|: why 
Hera hates Troy is not stated by the poet (except, possibly, O 25 ff .), but 
Argos, Sparta, and Mycenae were her favorite cities. 

56. AcLvoAv: genitive after a *verb of mental action,* H. 742; G. 
1102. — ^ : you see, with reference to the scene depicted in 51 f . — 
oparo : the active and middle forms, opcu and opiofwjL, and l^ofirp^, tScu 
and t8<ofuu, are used in Homer without appreciable difference of meaning 
(§ 50 a) ; cf, 203, 262, 587, B 237, T 163. 



10 



COMMENTARY. 



57. lifYtptfiv ktX. : the two verbs are thought to express the beginning 
and the completion of the act ; but we may compare the * assemble and 
meet together ' of the Prayer Book. For the fulness of expression, see 
§ 12 d. — iiY^p^ Ivy^P^n^y] ' aorist passive from dycc/xo. For the end- 
ing, see § 44 m. 

58. ToS<ri [avroTs]: 'dative of advantage.' Cf. 68, 247, 450, 571.— 
8^: for its use in the 'apodosis,' see § 21 a; cf. 137, 194, 281, T 290.— 
oyiordiuifot : the members of the assembly are seated (B 99), the 
speaker stands in their midst holding a staff (see on 15). — irdSat mcv« 
ictX. : as 84, 148, 215, etc. Cf. jroSapiaii Sto^ 'AxtAXcvs 121. See § 12 6. 

59. 'Arpc1Si| : he addresses Agamemnon as chief in command. — vih^ : 
ue. as things now are. — a|&|u : Aeolic form for 17/uias. — trdXiv vXayx^im^ : 
driven back, i.e. unsuccessful, without having taken llios. Cf. B 132. 

GO. ct Kcv ^vyoi|uv : the opt. is used instead of the subjunctive, because 
escape is thought of only vaguely. — Odvardv -yc : contrasted with dirovocr- 
n/ja-av. "If indeed we may expect to return, and are not rather to die 
here." 

61. €lt^: if now, as seems likely. — ha^ : future, see § 48 5. 

62. Siy§ : has become a mere interjection, and is used with the plural, 
as B 331, but aycrc also is used, as B 72, 83. — lidvrtv: a soothsayer^ 
augur, who foretold the future chiefly from the flight of birds. — 
IpciOfuv lipStfuv, Attic ifwifjue$a]: let us ask; present subjunctive, as if 
from Iprjfu (§ 52 c). — U^a : a priest of a definite divinity and sanctuary 
who predicted from the observation of sacrifices. Here some Trojan priest 
seems to be meant, since a priest could not desert the sanctuary of which 
he had charge, and so there were no priests in the Greek camp before 
Troy. The kings performed the sacrifices and offered prayers for the 
army. C/. B 411 ff., T 275 ff. 

63. ovcipoir6Xov : dream-seer. A dream-oracle is described by Vergil, 
A en. vii. 86-91. — koI ^Ap ktX. : for a dream also, as well as other signs. — 
^op Tf : closely connected, like n am que. — ^vap : equiv. to Attic Bvtipoi. 
— Ik A169: Zeus sends to Agamemnon (B 6) a dream that calls itself 
Aios ayyeXos. Athena also sends a dream to Penelope. 

64. ^ K ctiroi : potential optative in final sense, since the end aimed 
at is considered as a possible result of the principal action (ipeCofJuev). — 
6 Tt : wherefore. — r6vcov kx!^caro : conceived such heavy anger. Inceptive 
aorist, cf. IScurcv 33. — rdo-o-ov : cognate accusative, used as an adverb. — 
For the doubled <r, see § 59 d c. — 'AvdXXc»v: Achilles assumes that the 
pestilence was sent by the god of health and disease. 

65. ct Tc . . . ct Tc : indirect questions explaining the previous verse, cf. 
B 349. — 6 yt: for the repetition of the subject, see on 97. — c^«iXi|s, 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



11 



cKftr6|ipt|s : because of an unfulfilled vow or a hecatomb which has not been 
offered, cf. ipStv fJLrjvuras E 178 angry on account of the omission of sacrifices. 
— For the genitive of cause, cf. 429, B 225, 689, 694, rfja-^ airarry: kotcW 
A 168. — Homer does not hold strictly to the original meaning of 
* hecatomb,' cf. 315; a * hecatomb' of 12 heifers is mentioned Z 93, 115, 
and one of rams in A 102. 

66. al Kcv [cav] #ctX. : if perchance (in the hope that) he may please. See 
H. 907. — Kvtcr»|s: partitive genitive with avridura?. — For the inflection, 
see H. 216, 2; G. 291, 4. — TfXi(»v: construe with both nouns. Only 
unblemished victims were well pleasing to the gods. Thus the heifers 
offered to Athena were * sleek, untouched by the goad, upon whose necks 
the yoke had never rested,* Z 94. 

67. PoitXirai [^ouXifrai] : for the short mode-vowel in the subjunctive, 
see § 45. — dvricuros ktX. : to partake of the sacrifices and ward off from us 
(lit.ybr see § 19 c). — iW : construe with afivvoA. 

68. For such stereotyped verses, cf 73, 201. See § 12 A.— C/I the 
prose equivalent in Xen. Hell. II. 3. 35, 6 /icv ravr eln-wv iKajde^eTo* Qhfpa- 
fihrrfi 8* dvaoras ktX. — apa: here refers to the participle, like dra in 
prose, as B 310. — toSp-i : for them, see on 58. 

69. oU»voviX«iv : soothsayers, in a general sense, as oicovos is used for 
omen. This expression is used of Priam's son Helenus, Z 76, and Calchas 
is Beon-poim otwvton/? N 70. He was a warrior as well as a seer. See 
on B 832. — ^x** used only as a strengthening prefix with forms of 

70. OS : is long by position, since g^&y once began with vau, cf B 38. 
See § 59 m. — : used as imperfect, from otSd. — 4o-(r6|Mva [€<rd/x.€va] : 
in this form the original ia of the stem is retained. — irpd t Uvra : and 
which were before (i.e. past). — Uma: forms of cifu in Homer regularly 
retain the e of the stem. — This verse describes the seer's power in its full 
extent, cf novit namque omnia vates | quae sint, quae f uerint, 
quae mox ventura trahantur Verg. Georg. iv. 392 f. See T 109. 

71. Wjco-cTi [vavo-4 ] : * dative of interest ' with the verb. — For the inflec- 
tion, see § 36 5; H. 206 D; G. 270. — ij-yVaTo: l^d the way, guided. 
Here metaphorically of the seer who interpreted the portents relating to 
the voyage ; cf B 322 f So on the Argonautic expedition, the seer 
Mopsus gave the word for setting out. No expedition was complete 
without a soothsayer, even in the time of the Persian war, cf Hdt. ix. 37. 
But Xenophon and Clearchus inspected the sacrifices and observed the 
omens, in person. — IXtov: here like Tpoii;, of the kingdom of Priam, not 
the city itself. — fl<r»: only with verbs of motion; much like cis- It 
follows its accusative. 



12 



COMMENTARY. 



72. Hv: possessive pronoun, where the Attic prose would use the 
article n/v. This must not be confounded with the relative pronoun. 
Freq. the two can be distinguished by the verse, smce the possessive origi- 
nally began with f. See § 32 a. — SuC: by the help of. Attic &a 
fULVTUOfi, For the thought, see on B 832. — 'AvdXX«»v: the sun god, the 
god of physical and intellectual light, — the prophet of Zeus and the 
patron of prophecy. 

73. construe with dyofyqaaro. — iv ^poyimv: cf, ^iXa (fipoviiay 
A 219, Attic cilvovs* — d-yop^^^o: addressed them, — iicrlimv [/uicrctircv] : 
for the form, see § 43 H. 539 D 8. 

74. idXcai |u : Calchas as ftavrts felt himself called to speak by the 
words of Achilles, 62. — Sit^tXf : cf. d(nfC<lMXK T 21 ; for the length of the 
antepenult, see § 36 a. — i&vO^o-acrOcu : interpret. 

75. UanfiMroo : for the form, see §§ 22 c, 34 c ; H. 148 D 1 ; G. 188, 3. 

76. Ip^ kt\. : I will speak, etc. A solemn form of introduction. Cf. 
* Behold now I have opened my mouth, my tongue hath spoken in my 
mouth,' Job xxxiii. 2. — 6^aamv: see § 48 a. 

77. i{ |Uv [fiiiv] : surely and truly. — irpd^pMv: construe with api/fav. 
It is always used predicatively, where the English idiom would prefer an 
adverb, see § 56 a p. — tteww xal x^P^^^* equiv. to the prose Aoyw xai 
IfTfta by word and deed. Cf. 395. — &f»4{fiv : observe the future infinitive 
after words of promising or hoping. 

78. ovSpa: object of xoAaktc/ukv shall enrage. — xtXmvi^ [xoA.«iKrcii/] : 
for the ending, see § 44 /. — fU'ya : used adverbially with Kpariei, cf. 103, 
iroAXov 91, iroXv 112, evpv 102. It strengthens all three degrees of com- 
parison in Homer, cf B 274, 239, 480. See § 56 5. 

79. Ka( ol [avrw] : for koI ^. The relative construction is abandoned 
as often in later Greek. Cf 162, 506. See § 11 /; H. 1005 ; G. 1040. This 
was especially natural after the pause in the verse. — The last half of the 
verse repeats the same thought in reverse order. — 'Axavoi: used here 
without distinction of meaning from 'ApyctW at the beginning of the 
verse, see on 42. Cf T 226 f . 'ApyeuK is never used at the close of a 
verse, while *Axaia)v could not begin the verse. 

80. -ydp : introduce^ a further explanation of his special need (cf irpo- 
ffipujv 77) of protection. — 6t€ x&cvrtu [orav xuMrtirat] : whenever his wrath 
is roused. For the short mode vowel, see § 45 a. For the hypothetical 
relative sentence without av or kc, cf. 230, 543, 554 ; see H. 914 a; G. 1437. 
— X^P^^* ^ subject, man of low degree. 

81. ct mp ktX. : for even if with the subjunctive. See § 18 ; H. 804 b ; 
G. 1396. — \6\o¥; a burst of anger, while Kdros is the lasting grudge 
which plans for revenge, and the fjojvi^ of Achilles led him simply to with- 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



18 



draw from the fight (see on 1). ^ emphasized in contrast with 

KOTw by ye and by its * chiastic * position (§ 16 a). The Attic opyj; is not 
found in Homer. — Karair^^ : digest, suppress. Cf, 'A^tXcv? . . . cttJ 
jnjval )(okoy OvfuxXyai irifTira, A 512 f . 

82. &XXd: after ciTrcp, as Latin at after si, yet. The apodosis is really 
contrasted with the protasis (§ 21 a). — The reciprocal relation of the 
thoughts is marked by the tc . . . t€ (§ 21 6), cf. 218, V 12, 33 f . — fx« : 
holds fast, cherishes. — ^^pa: temporal, until. — [tcXcot;] : sc. 
K&rw, accomplishes his wrath, i.e. does what he plans in his wrath. 

83. Iv rrffita-axv : not capriciously, nor for the sake of the metre, sepa- 
rated from KOTov, but added with greater emphasis than it could have 
at the close of the verse. — rHfiea^v : for the form, cf PcXeaaiv 42. — 
cotin: possessive pronoun, cf suus. The Attic might be satisfied with 
the article, cf 72. — ^pdo-ai : aorist middle imperative, make clear to thy- 
self consider. <\>pdj(fii in Homer does not mean tell. — ft: whether. — 
<rcUl<rcif : Attic craxrcis* 

84. The first * hemistich * (with njv occasionally for rov) is used in 
Homer more than 100 times. — r6v : construe with wpofri^nj. — &ira|Mip6- 
fuvos ktX. : with Epic fulness and dignity instead of the prosaic atreKpl- 
varo. 

85. Oap<Hj<ras : c/l 92. — For the aorist, cf. l^eurcv 33. — |&^a : construe 
with the imperative, as 173. — Ocoirp6iriov : equiv. to Attic fmvreiov. 

86. |id : no, in truth, /la is a particle of swearing with the accusa- 
tive, which probably depends upon a verb, implied. In affirmative assev- 
erations vat fia is used, as 234. The negative is repeated in 88 for greater 
earnestness. — StC^iXov: only here as an epithet of a divinity. — <p tc 
€^6^voi : Calchas prayed to Apollo as his patron, the god of prophecy 
who revealed to him what he declared to the Greeks. — KdXxav : voca- 
tive. See H. 170 D. 

87. 6covpoir(as : a collateral form to Btfnrpwrwv 85, see § 37. — Avcu^aC- 
vcif : art wont to reveal. 

88. I|u{) (AvTos : while I live ; in a threatening tone. — lirl x^ovl ktX. : 
a poetic expression for {[c^vros, cf vivus vidensque in Terence. For 
the fulness of expression, see § 12 (/ ; cf 57, 99, 160, 177, 288 f ., 553, V 71, 
* as sure as I live and breathe.' 

89. PopcCos: heavy, i.e. violent. — x<^P^ hrola-n : cf xc</)a9 c^cud 567. 

90. ©is* tJv : not even if generally as here after a negative. " This 
promise will hold even if." — 'A'yaiUiLvova : Calchas had indicated him 
clearly in 78 f . 

91. voXXdv : for its inflection, see § 38 c ; for its adverbial use, cf. fieya 
78, 103, iroXv 112. — apurros: mightiest, as commander-in-chief of the 



14 



COMMENTARY. 



army. Cf. B 82, 580 ; see on B 108. — The Homeric heroes were always 
frank of speech. Achilles calls himself apurro^ *Axauov 244, 412 ; Odys- 
seus says that his fame reaches to the heavens ; Hector challenges the 
bravest of the Achaeans to fight I^KTopi &'(4> H 75. C/*. sum plus 
Aeneas fama super aethera notus Yerg. ^en. i. 378 f. But the 
formula vjypiua dvai often contains no idea of boasting, and may mean 
only claim to he, affirm oneself to he, 

92. Kol t6tc hi\ : and so then (temporal) . — Odponrfo^ : took courage. — 
d|fc^|M»v : refers generally to nobility of birth, or to beauty or strength of 
person, — not to moral quality. 

93 = 65, with the change of outc for etre. 

94. IvcK &pi|Tfjpos: construe with iinfUfi<f>€TajL, The preposition is 
used here, perhaps, because of the remoteness of the noun from the verb, 
but the poet was free to use the preposition or not, just as he chose. 

95. ov8' dirlXvo'c #crX. : a more definite statement of yrCfiriae, abandon- 
ing the relative construction, cf. 79. — In later Greek, participles would 
be expected, instead of the indicative. — koX ovk : is used, not ovSc, since 
the negative is construed closely with the verb. See on 28. 

96. ToivcK* apa : on this account then (as I said) . This repeats emphati- 
cally 94, and adds a prediction of the results of the god's anger. — For 
the < crasis,' see § 26. 

97. o y€ : emphatic repetition of the subject, cf, 65, 496, iroXXa ^ 6 y 
cv irovr^ irdBey aXy€a a 4 which Vergil copied in multum ille et 
terris iactatus et alto 4^7^- ^- ^- — Aavooto-tv #crX. : cf 67. — &ir^ 
o-€i : metaphorically, of a heavy burden. 

98. irpCv : is found elsewhere as here in both principal and subordinate 
clauses, cf B 348, 354 f. — &iro 8d|uvai : cf hofjxvai iraXiv 116. The sub- 
ject of the verb is easily supplied from Aamolo-iv. — 8d|uvai [Sovvoi] : for 
the ending, see § 44 /. — jXiKt&mSa: quick-eyed. 

99. dirpidrtfy dvdirotvov : for the * asyndeton,' see § 15, cf, B 325. — 
Up^v : standing epithet of the hecatomb, as 431, 443. 

100. IXao-o^iuvoi : for the manner of propitiation, cf (rrpeirroi 3c rc 
Kol Oeci avToC . . . #cai /acv tovs Ovhaai #cat €vx<«>A.^s ayavg(nv \ AoijS^ tc 
KVL(rg TC TrapaxpanrSia SvOpanroi \ Xjura-Ofievoi I 497 ff. the gods themselves 
may he hent, and men move their hearts hy supplicating them with offerings 
and goodly vows and the savor of hurnt sacrifices. — ircirC0oi|icv : for the 
reduplication of the 2d aorist, see § 43 e. 

101-187. Quarrel hetween Agamemnon and Achilles, 
101 = 68. 

102. cvpv KpcUv : standing epithet of the king, as 355, 411, F 178. See 
§§ 12 6, 22 c. Cf. B 108. — For the adverbial use of cu/jv, see on ^cya 78. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



15 



103. {ilvcos: with rage. Gen. of fulness. — d|i^i|UXaivai : darkened on 
all sides. The mind is dark with passion, which is thought of as a cloud 
enveloping the <^pci/cs. Cf, T 442, Odpa-ev^ irX^at <^/3cra9 dfi<t>i'fJijeXaLva^ P 
573 Jilled his dark heart with courage, 

104. ot : dat. with the verb, instead of a limiting gen. with oaae. See 
§ 19 e, — Xa|jtiriT^«vTt [Ad^ircTwi/Ti] : in contrast with dfi<f>ifJL€XaAvajL, — 
c(icTi|v: pluperfect as imperfect. C/cotxa. See § 49 c; H.492D7. C/.200. 

105. For the lack of a conjunction, see § 15. — irp<&Tio^a: this is a 
superlative, formed regularly from ir/xoro9) which is already superlative 
in meaning. Cf, the English chiefest, — k^k o(r(r6|uvos : looking evil, i,e, 
with look that boded ill. — For the accent of kok (for #ca#ca) see § 28 d. 

106. fi^vTi KaKMv : prophet of ill, ill-boding seer. Some of the ancients 
thought this referred to the seer's words at Aulis, where he showed that 
Artemis demanded the sacrifice of Agamemnon's daughter Iphigenia in 
return for an insolent word of the king (Soph. El, 566 ff.). — Cf, *But I 
hate him ; for he doth not prophesy good concerning me, but evil,' 1 Kings 
xxii. 8. — TO KfWj'yvov: equiv. to 1<t$\6v 108, in contrast with Kcumv, For 
the * generic * use of the article, cf ra Kcucd 107, and see on ra xep€Lom 576. 

— ctiras [cTttcs] : has the * variable vowel * of the 1st aorist. 

107. aUC : Agamemnon exaggerates in his anger. — rd Koxd : subject 
of the verb of which ^tXa is predicate. — iMivrt ^o^at : explanatory inf., 
cf €v6a <^tX' oTTToXea Kp&i tSfievcu ktK. A 345. — " Always dost thou delight 
to prophesy calamity." 

108. lAco-o-os: brought to pass, — "Nothing good in word or deed 
comes from thee." 

109. Kal vvv : a special instance under atci 107. — cv : in the presence 
of before, — Oc<nrpoiiic»v d'yopcvcts : as B 322. 

110. 8^: ironical, like the later ^vjOev, scilicet; constnie with tovS* 
cvc#ca, evidently on this account, — cict|pdXos : for the epithet used as a 
proper name, cf, 37. — tcvxci : see on tOrjKev 2. 

111. Agamemnon speaks only of the rejection of the ransom, 
not of the slight offered to the priest ; but gives prominence to the odious 
charge that he, their king, was the cause of the sufferings of the Danai. 

— KovpT)s Xpwnj(8o$ : gen. of price, cf 8a>#c' vios iroivrp^ (as a price for his 
son) Tawfiy^oi E 266. For the * patronymic,* see on 13. It is used here 
exactly like the gen. XpvcrrjoS' 

112. «irf C : introduces the explanation of ovk tOeXov was not inclined. 
Cf, 156. — povXofMii: contains the idea of 'choice,' 'preference' (sc. y 
atroiva Se^co^), which is here strengthened by the adv. iroX.v (acc. of ex- 
tent). Cf, 117. — avHjv : the maiden herself contrasted with the ransom. 

— To his accusation of Calchas, the king adds at once his own defence. 



16 



COMMENTARY. 



113. otKOi Sx<n>v : i.e. to retain in my possession. — KaC : even. Construe 
with KXvTOJLfivi^irTprj^, — y^^* f^^y you see, — KXvTai|fcWjo^pT)s : accord- 
ing to the later story, she was daughter of Tyndareiis and Leda, and thus 
half-sister of Helen. The ancient Greek on hearing these lines remem- 
bered well that Clytaenmestra proved unfaithful to Agamemnon, and 
slew him on his return to his home. She was herself slain by her son 
Orestes. The deaths of Agamemnon and Clytaemnestra formed the 
theme of famous tragedies by the three greatest tragic poets of Greece, — 
the Agamemnon and Choephoroe of Aeschylus, the Electro of Sophocles, 
and the Electro of Euripides. — irpoP^povXa : with present signification, — 
For the form, see H. 510 D 4. 

114. ov cOcv : for the hiatus, see § 27 /. The negative receives empha- 
sis from its position. — I6<v : for the form, see § 33 c. — x'pc^"^ [x**p*^] • 
cf, x^PW- 80. 

115. ov S^ifcOfi : not in buUd, This probably refers to her stature, since 
the Greeks always associated height and beauty, cf. T 167. — ot>8c +v^v : 
lias reference to her fair proportions. — With these two qualities of her 
person are contrasted by ^ asyndeton ' two mental characteristics, neither in 
mind nor in accomplishments, 

116. Kal &i : even thus, " although Chryseis is so beautiful and accom- 
plished." Cf, T 159. — 8d|uvat irAXiv : restore, cf, dwb Sowou 98, 134. — t6 
y a|uivov : the * copula ' is here omitted in a condition, as T 402, E 184. 

117. For the lack of a conjunction, see § 15. — po^Xo|jiat r\ : see on 112. 
— t^^vai [ctmt] : by assimilation, from ccr-ficmi. 

118. avrCx* €Tot|A4o^T€ : the unreasonable demand provokes the quarrel 
with Achilles and elicits the epithet t^iXoKrcavcurarc 122. — T^pos ktX.: 
this is made more definite lat-er, cf, 138, 182 ff. 

119. t» [to] : for the form, see on iovra 70. — ov8c ^oikcv : it is not even 
seemly f to say nothing of its imfairness. 

120. o : like quod, equiv. to ori th<tt. Cf, ytyv(o(r#ca>v o ot avros wrctp- 
c^c x^H^^ 'AttoAAwv E 433. — ipxarai aXX|) : i,e, leaves me. The present 
IpX^^Tox is used of the immediate future. 

122. KvSio^c: a standing epithet of Agamemnon, cf, B 434. The 
following epithet is contrasted bitterly with this. 

123. irfis #ctX. : the question implies the absurdity of the proposition. 
— -yAp : introduces the explanation of some gesture of surprise or vexation. 
Its force may often be given by the exclamation * what I ' 

124. t8|uv [to-zxcv] : for the S, see § 30 rf. — (w^ta [kolvo] ktK, : undis" 
turhed treasures lying in abundance^ from which the king could be recom- 
pensed easily for the loss of his prize. This again refers to Agamemnon's 
avruca 118. — Booty taken on their marauding expeditions was the com- 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



17 



mon property of the army after the several prizes of honor (ycpa, 185) 
had been selected for the chiefs ,*c/1 368 f., ix irdXios 8* oXd^ovs #cat KTrjfmra 
TToXXa XaP6vT€s I Saa-adfieff /ly rk /tot drcfiPofjusvoi k(ol Ifrq^ i 41 f 
taking from the city the wives and many treasures we divided them, that no 
one might lack his fair share, — These prizes were sometimes selected by 
the leaders themselyes, but are often spoken of as the gift of the people, 
276, 369, 392. Doubtless they were distributed by the general, with the 
approval of the army. Thus I 367, Agamemnon is said by Achilles to 
have given Briseis to him. 

125. tA, tA: strictly both are demonstratives (§§ ?1 a, 42 i), (the sec- 
ond repeating the first), although the first may be translated as a relative. 

— rd |iiv : the thought contrasted with this, is implied in 127 ff . — «oXU»v 
[iroXcwv] : t.«. cities near Troy, of which Achilles had sacked 12 with his 
fleet and 11 with a land force, see I 328 f . Homer mentions the sack of 
Lesbos, of Lymessus, of PedasuSTof Scyrus, of Tenedos, of Theba. Cf 
Nestor's words, vqvalv iir yepoeiSia irovrov \ irXa(6fitvoi Kara XiytS*, oin| 
ap^€uv *A;(iAX€vs y 105 f . . . . wandering for booty wherever Achilles led. 
See § 6 h, — The genitive depends upon the following preposition in 
composition. — c(cirpdOo|uv : equiv. to l^uKoiuv iripaavre^, — S^Soo^im : 
the tense marks that the matter has been settled and is not to be 
reconsidei'ed. 

126. 'koM^i receives emphasis from its position, while the contrast 
lies in ScSocrrai and mkiXXoya imycipeiv collect again what has been dis- 
tributed. — voXlXXoYa : * proleptic,' " so as to be together." 

127. 6<f : in honor of the god, for the god*s sake. Dative of interest. — 
avrdp : correlative with fUv. See § 21 /. 

128. rptirXf TtrpairX^ rc : for the copulative conjunction, see § 21 g. 

— cnrorUroiuv : unll recompense. 

129. h^n [8w] : for the ending, see § 44 a. — ir^Xtv Tpo(i|v : the Trojan 
city, the city of Troy. — fwrctx^ov : Poseidon built the walls 446). 

131. |fci) i(\ : with imv., as E 218 ; with subjv. used as imv., E 684. — 
Si] ovr«s : for the * synizesis,' cf 340, 540 ; see § 25. — aya06t : no moral 
quality is implied. Cf ^vfjtMv 92. 

132. kX^ittc : have secret thoughts in mind, be deceitful, — an accusa- 
tion most hateful to the outspoken Achilles. Cf. English steal and stealth. 

— vapcXcitf-f at : for the uncontracted form, cf veqai 32. — |J: construe 
with both verbs. 

133. 1) cd^it icrX. : dost thou wish indeed that thou thyself shouldst have 
a prize of honor (referring to 126) while (lit. but) I etc. Agamemnon 
replies to the charge of covetousness (122) by the assertion that Achilles 
has a selfish end in view in urging him to give up Chryseis. — r\: is 



18 



COMMENTARY. 



never used in Homer as a simple interrogation point. It always expresses 
emotion. Cf. 203, 365 ; see § 20 6. — : instead of the customary 

inf. or an object clause with on, cf. 0vfjm iiriaavrai 6<l>p* imfvuvia Z 361. 
^ — avrdp : for the use of the * adversative ' conjunction, see § 21 d. — 
avTWf : explained by Scvofuvov, see § 11 j\ 

134. ifo^ai : with a participle marks the continuance of a state, esp. 
where a person is given up to sadness or misfortune, cf, B 255. 

136. d^po-avTfff #ctX. : suiting it to my mind, ue, choosing one which will 
be satisfactory. — xard Ov|itfv: nearly equiv. to Ovfju^. — orrdftov: sc, Xpv- 
arfC8(K* — The conclusion of the sentence is omitted aposiopesis '). It 
would be perhaps tv €x«^ koA-ws &v €x<h. When two mutually exclusive 
conditional sentences stand side by side, the conclusion of the first may 
be omitted. See H. 904 a. 

137. S^fiMTiv [SoKi-iv] : for the form, see § 52 c. — iy^ S^: for 3c in 
apod., see on 58. — IX«|iai : for the subjunctive used almost like a future, 
see § 18 6 ; cf 184, 324, T 417. 

138. Ti6v : sc. yepas* — ACarros : son of Telamon, from Salamis (B 557), 
the mightiest of all the Greeks except Achilles (B 768). He is not 
to be confounded with the swift-footed leader of the Locrians, Ajax, 
son of Oileus (B 527). Telamonian Ajax is always meant when no dis- 
tinguishing epithet is used. He committed suicide because the arms of 
Achilles, after that hero's death, were given to Odysseus rather than to 
him (§ 9 a). — Uv : cf id>v KXwCqvSe 185. Homer is fond of a participle 
which completes the picture but is not strictly necessary to the sense, as 
&yuiv 311, iXBil^v 401, i\ii>v 139, l^v 537, tw, XafiiDV B 261, irapamrrd^ B 189, 
<f>€pov<ra r 425, dfi^tcTroKrcs B 525, cyxo/xcvo? B 597. These participles 
are commonly intransitive in this use. — 'OSvo^os [*OSu<r<r€ci)s] : the hero 
of the Odyssey, the wise Ithacan prince (B 636) by whose device of the 
wooden horse Ilios was captured (§ 9 a). He is sent in charge of the 
expedition to restore Chryseis to her father, 311. He restrains the Achae- 
ans from following a mad impulse to set out for home, B 169 ff. He 
chastises Thersites, B 244 ff. His pei*sonal appearance as an orator is 
described, F 191 ff. He is sent as an envoy to Achilles in the Ninth 
Book. He enters the Trojan camp as a spy, with Diomed, in the Tenth 
Book. He is the special favorite of Athena, see on B 169. — For the 
single <r, cf 'Ax^X^os 1. — Agamemnon expresses his sovereignty in an 
arbitrary way, declaring his absolute authority over the three mightiest 
princes of the army. 

139. a(tt cX^v : shall seize and lead away. The return to the principal 
thought (IX(i)/iai) betrays the king's passionate excitement. — Ktv KcxoXd- 
o-crai : he will he angry, I think. The tone is sarcastic. — : accusative 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



19 



of * limit of motion/ to whom. See on 254. — tKM|jiai : for the hypothetical 
relative sentence, see H. 916 ; G. 1434. 

140. raShu : ue. what is to be the recompense. — |UTa^pao^|uo^a : 
/juera afterwards is repeated more definitely in koI avrts. — For the end- 
ing, see § 44 ik. — Here the speaker adopts a more quiet tone (interrupted 
only by an echo of his anger, in 146) and enters into the details of the 
ship's equipment. 

141. fuXoivav: for the color of the ships, see on B 637. — Ipvo-o-oiuv 
[cpvcrcDficv] : * hortatory subjunctive.* 

142. h 8c : adv., as 309, see § 55 a. Proleptic, "so that they shall be 
therein." 

143. Oc(o|icv [^w/iicv] : eft iptiofiev 62.~&v [dm] : up, on hoard. Adv. 
with p-i^Ofuv. — For the loss of the final a, see § 29. — a^'v : herself, as 
the person principally concerned. — Xpvon^CSa : in apposition with avn/v. 

144. pi{(ro|uv : 1st aorist from jSouVco, transitive. See H. 500. — opx^ • 
predicate, as commander. — aviip povXt)<^pos : in apposition with els ri9. 

145. lSo|uvcvs: leader of the Cretans (B 645). 

147. ij|jitv : dative of interest. — ^Kdcpyov : for similar epithets of 
Apollo, see 14, 75, 370, 385 ; § 22 c. — IXoCo-o-c at : agrees in person with 
the neai'est subject. 

148. virdSpalS^v: Vergil's torva tuentem ^€n. vi. 467. 

149. Imci|uvc : clothed toith. Of the two aces, which the verb governs 
in the active, one is retained in the passive. See H. 724 a; G. 1239. 
Cft. AlavTcs Oovpiv {impetuous) iiruLfievoL oAki/v (valor) H 164. — KcpSa- 
Xf6^pov: cunning minded, referring to 146. — Achilles thinks that the 
king wishes to send him to Chrysa in order to rob him in his absence of 
what he would lack the courage to take in his presence. 

150. Tot, liricriv : datives of the * whole and part.* Cft. 362, B 171, T 
35, 438, 442. See § 12 /; H. 625 c; G. 917 — irp<5+p«v : see on 77. 

— irfC9i|Tai: deliberative subjunctive in the 3d person. — For the allitera- 
tion of IT, cft. 165; see § 13 a. 

151. o8dv: cognate acc. See H. 715 b; G. 1052. Journey, of an em- 
bassy like that suggested for him in 146. — IXO^iuvat : iXOeiv. See §44/. 

152. y^: the reasons for the preceding question (which is equiv. to a 
negative assertion) continue through 162. — " Thou dost repay with base 
ingratitude us who are fighting not for our own cause but only for thee." 

— fyA : sudden transition from the indef . rts of 150. — -qXvOov [^\$ov] : 
for the V of the penult, cft. the penult of iki^XvOa. 

153. ScGpo: construe with rjXvOov. — |jiaxt|<r6|jifvos : for the length of 
the last syllable, cft. 226 ; see § 59 Z. — aCrtoC ctonv : are to blame ftor me, 
have done me wrong. 



20 



COMMENTARY. 



154. poOs: fern., of the herds. — t|Xaarav: drove off. — Mi ^v: nor 
in truthy cf, 603. — This verse and the next indicate the common causes of 
war in the heroic period, as between the English and the Scotch in the 
time of the border troubles. 

155. *6^fl : the later Phthiotis (B 683), not the city, as is shown by 
the epithet ipiPioXaKi. — fittnawtipii^ : cf, KovporpwfxK as epithet of Ithaca. 

156. iroXXd |UTa(i» : much lies between. This is explained by the fol- 
lowing verse. 

157. ovpca ktX. : in apposition with voXAa above. — o-Ki^vra : full of 
shadows. — rlx^^ia-va, : only here as epithet of the sea. Cf. TraXv^AxKo-jSoco 
34, B 209. 

158. iii^A : see on 78. — x<^^< • subjv. in a final sentence after the 
aorist, as B 206, Z 357 f. See § 18 d y. 

159. TV|fci(v : retribution, satisfaction, esp. the return of Helen and the 
treasures carried away by Paris. Cf. T 286, E 552. — dpv^iuvot : striving 
to gain. — Kw&va: the dog was to the oriental the personification of 
shamelessness, cf. 225. Helen in self-reproach applies to herself the 
epithet tcuvunn^, T 180 ; cf. Sojep ifjueto (addressing Hector), icwos KOKOfirf 

6Kpvo€a(rrj^ Z 344. The highest impudence was indicated by #cvm- 
fivca dog-fly. In the Odyssey, however, the dog seems to be in better 
favor. Argus, the old hunting dog of Odysseus, remembers his master 
during the twenty years of his absence, and alone recognizes him on his 
return, dying as he welcomes him to his home. 

160. tAv : neuter, referring to the various details included in the pre- 
ceding thought, 158 f. 

161. KoX Stf : and now, nearly equiv. to #cat as in Attic. Cf. B 135, 
Kou Siy tpri oucdvSc A 180. — fioC : dative of disadvantage with a<fH3iiprj<r€<rB(U, 
cf. riiuv 67, TXavKta Kpcvtdvf^ operas c^cXcto Zcvs Z 234. — T^pas : see on 
124. — oMt: of thine own will, arbitrarily, as 137. Construe with the 
subject of dffxupi^eaOaLi. 

162. <f fin : for which. For the * anastrophe ' of the accent, see § 55 c. 
^h&vav hi: the relative const, is abandoned, as 79. — vtcs : for the form, 
see § 37 c. 

163. |iiv [fi^] ktX. : yet never have I. A present expression of past 
experience. This thought increases the unfairness of Agamemnon's pres- 
ent course. — croC : i.e. like to thine, equiv. to tw <rw yepai, the person 
instead of the attribute being compared. See H 773 b ; G. 1178. 

164. TfM&Mv irroXCcOpov : a city of the Trojans, as B 228. See on 125. 

165. |jiv : the principal thought follows, 167. The English idiom 
prefers the subordinate construction, although my hands . • . yet.** See 
§ 21 </. — TO irXctov: the greater part. 



FIBST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



21 



167. TO Vpas : the article is used almost as in Attic, the usual gift of 
honor. — oXtyov t€ ktK, : the thought is 'adversative,' though the conjunc- 
tions are * copulative,* cf, 800-19 oXiyrf tc 4>^V C 208. See § 21 d. Cf, 
* an ill-favored thing, but mine own,' Shakspere As You Like It v. 4. 60. 

168. ^px^F^^^ ^X»v • 9^ ^ff with, more picturesquely descrip- 
tive than €x<») 163 ; cf, B 71. — tirl vf|os : cf 12. — ml kc ktX. : when I have 
fought myself weary. This gives renewed prominence to the thought of 
insuflBciently recompensed effort. 

169. Sc kt\, : contrast vdth his previous activity in battle. 

'170. t|jLcv [tcwu] : for the form, see § 44 /. — ov8c ovi: construe with 
a<f>vi€Lv* For the elision, see § 28 a. — oU» : think, intend, as 296. 
171. a^^(civ : heap up. 

173. ^i»7c: odious expression for the return to his home which 
Achilles had announced, 169. — |MC\a : by all means, cf 85. 

174. c|Mto [ifuni] : for the form, (with the ending of the 2d decL, § 35 a), 
see H. 261 D; G. 393. — cfAoC'yf: with self-assertion. — ctXXot: sc. eUriv. 

175. |u Ti|jiT{(rovo'i : will gain me honor, referring to 159. — (jLtfrCcra: a 
standing epithet of Zeus, cf. Att firjriv ardXavTov B 169. — For the ending, 
see § 34 b. — In this confidence is seen the poet's irony, when the later 
course of Zeus is remembered, which brought defeat and humiliation to 
Agamemnon. 

176. ^x^iOTos: most hatefd. Formed from l^^* — • ^ 
form are preserved both the original stem, icr, and the original ending -on. 

— Siorpc^W : the royal power had its source in Zeus, the patron god of 
princes. Cf. Scoycvcs 337, B 173. Kings are called Oepairovre^ Aios, as 
warriors are B^pa-jrovrei" Kfyqo^ (B 110). 

177. ^CXt) : the predicate adjective regularly agrees with the preceding 
noun, and the rest of the verse is in a sort of apposition with Ipts. — 
ir6Xc|M>C rc ktX. : in his anger, the king counts these the result of mere 

178. The * asyndeton * here and below shows the speaker's excitement. 

— cl fftoXa ktX. : cf. 280, 290. — Kaprcp6s : refers to 165. — OciSs irov [^/ttov] 
ktX. : "it is not thy merit." 

179. crvv yi|vo'l ktX. : Agamemnon returns to the thought of 173. The 
circumstantial fulness of the expression, as of 183, marks the complete 
separation of the two forces. 

180. Mvp|jii8dvc(r(riv : cf B 684. Dative of advantage, see § 19 e. 
This word is made prominent since the thought is before the speaker's 
mind that Achilles, in the consciousness of his strength, desires to rule 
all the Achaeans, cf. 287 it. — viUv KOTiorros: "thy anger," cf 160.— 
WSiv [oxw] : for this form of the genitive, cf IBtv 114. 



22 



COMMENTARY. 



182. MS : jnst as. The corresponding thought of the apodosis is found 
in cyttf #crX. 184. The interposed clause, /acv #crX., has properly only 
the value of a subordinate clause, though with the form of a principal 
sentence. Cf. 165 ; see § 21 J. — a^oipcCrai : here followed by two aces., 
as 275. C/. 161. 

183. nfv : either ravrqv or avn/v could have been used in Attic. — o^v 
ynjf, r : loith a ship of mine. 

184. Bpion|(8a : only her patronymic is used by Homer, see on 13. In 
the sack of Lymessus by Achilles, her husband and her three brothers 
had been slain. Cf. B 690 ff. — Agamemnon now acts in accordance with 
his threat of 137. 

185. TO ITOV 'Y^pof : emphatic contrast, that prize of thine. In apposi- 
tion with BpurrjiSa. 

186. ^o-o-ov : how much. Accusative of extent where the Attic might 
have used gkt^ dative of degree of difference. See on 78. — ^'prcpos : sc. 
as commander of the entire army and powerful king, cf. 281, B 108. — 
aXXos : i.e. every other. 

187. to-ov : masc., with ifioL ffxurBfO, assert himself my equal. — +cur6ou : 
follows arvyejg. — o|&oi«6t(|MV<u lofUHatO^vajL] &im\v : liken himself to me, to 
my face. 

188-222. Intervention of Athena. 

188. MS : Attic ovtu}^ l^ni- — ni|Xcta»vi : for the formation of the 
patronymic, see § 39 A. — ^os 'ytvfTo : grief arose f(yr, i.e. grief came upon 
him. — €v Sc: within, adv., defined more exactly by the local arrjOeaaiv. 
See § 55 a. — ol : dative of interest. 

189. XoorCoio-i : a shaggy breast was thought to indicate manliness and 
courage. Cf B 743, 851. 

190. r\: for 17 ... 17c (192) in a double indirect question, see § 20 h. 

191. Toiit |Uv: i.e. the other princes, who were seated (see on 58) 
between him and Agamemnon (c/*. 247). — waa^a-w : should rouse from 
their seats, and drive away, as he sprung at the king. — o Sc : repeats the 
last subject; it is almost equiv. to avros Sc. Cf. cyw 3c 184. This either 
makes f)rominent the identity of subject iu a contrast of actions, or marks 
the progress of tlie action by calling renewed attention to the doer of the 
deed. — IvopC^oi: the optative represents the 'deliberative subjunctive* 
of direct discourse, cf T 317. 

193. Kard ^pcva ktK. : in mind and heart. 

194. ^KCTo: he was drawing; the act was interrupted (c/. 220).—' 
i|XOf : for 8e in the apodosis, see on 58. 

195. oipav6ecv : but she returns OvXvfiwovSe 221. The peaks of Olym- 
pus tower above the clouds into heaven, see on 44. — irpo -qKt : sent forth, 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



23 



ue, sent hither, cf, 442. Athena often acts as subordinate to Hera. Cf, 
B 156, E 713. — Hera is patron goddess of the Atridae. 

196. a)ii^ci> : object of ^cXcovoo, to which KrfiofUyrf is added in a freer 
relation. — Ov|i^ : see on 24. 

197. orrij 8' omOcv : she stepped up behind. — {avOi|s : epithet of Mene* 
laus, as r 284 ; of Meleager, B 642 ; of Bhadamanthys ; of Demeter, E 
500. — K6^rf9 : genitive of the part touched. See H. 738 ; G. 1100. 

198. otif : Homeric divinities appeared only to single persons ; not to 
companies of men, except when disguised in human form. Only to the 
people of the fairy-land Phaeacia were the gods wont to appear visibly. — 
r&v 8' £XX«»v ktX. : the thought of the first word of the verse is repeated 
in negative form. 

199. OoC|jLpi)o-f V : sc, at being thus seized. — furd 8* Irpoirfro: since 
Athena stood behind him. Literally, not as 160. 

200. 8civ^ : predicate. They were the eyes of yAavKunrts 'A^ny (206). 

— 8c : for the use of the adversative instead of a causal conjunction, cf. 
228, 259 ; see § 21 — ot : for the dative of interest, see § 19 «. — ^v^cv : 
for the ending, see § 44 iii. — oa-fre as a neuter dual may have a verb in the 
plural as here, or in the singular, or in the dual. 

201. An often (not less than fifty times) repeated verse, see 12 A. — 

— |fcCv: object of ir/xxn^vSa. — ^coWjcros: lifted up his voice, cf. § 12 d; not 
equivalent to ciircov, which in Homer is used only of what has just been 
related. — irrip6cvTa : for the final vowel here short though before two 
consonants, see § 59 g. 

202. tCitt avTi : " What now 1 why art thou come ? " a^lrc is here not 
equiv. to avns, and does not imply that she had been there before, but is 
uttered in a tone of vexation. — TCirrt ctXt{XovOas [cXijXv^s] : for this 
greeting, cf. rcicvov, tltttc Xiirtav iroXc/iov Opaavv clXijXovOa^ ; Z 254. — 
al^ioxoio . . . TCKOs : ten times repeated in Homer, cf. § 12 b. 

203. This verse contains several metrical peculiarities. For the hiatus 
after the first foot, see § 27 6 ; for that after t^, see § 27 c. — i} tva jctX. : 
he answers the question himself by a conjecture, cf. Z 255. — 18^ : for the 
voice, cf opaTo 198 ; see on 56. 

204. f K : construe with cpcco. Cf 212. — xaC ; also, construe with rcXcc- 
(future). " This will not be a mere prediction." 

205. vircpoirXC|)o-i : for the long penult, see § 59 b. For the plural (esp. 
in the dative), cf TrpoOvfuyai B 588, iroSiaKciyai B 792, aLvaXjceCrfm Z 74. — 
luxA kt\. : a covert hint at his murderous thoughts. — £v : const, with 
oXcVot; (§ 18 b). 

206. 'yXavKdms: gleaming-eyed, cf. ^ivta ktX. 200. The Homeric 
Athena is the fierce-eyed, courageous goddess of war. Cf. ravra (sc, ttoXc- 



24 



CX)MMENTARY. 



ptaiia Ipya) 8* 60^ km ^A^qvr/ vdvra /AcXi/orci E 430. Her epithet 

HaXXan belongs to her as wielding the lance. She became 'Aft/va l^ucq 
and *ABvp^ Jlp6fm)(09 at Athens. 

207. i[X6ov : not equivalent to the perf. dXi^XjovOa, but presenting the 
same act from a different point of view. — mtiro-ovo-a : to cease, to allay, 
cf, 192. — TO o^v (i^vot : this thy rage, this rage of thine. Cf. ffSitru <rc ro 
(Tov ficvos Z 407. — aC Nc jcrX. : see on 66. 

210. IpiSot : i.e, the contest of force to which he is inclined. — IXicfo: 
present imperative, continue to draw, cf. 194. 

211. oXX* i{ TOi : after a negative idea, this emphasizes the affirmative 
thought. — «t tvmx \l<nxa\ : " as opportunity shall offer." 

212. A set verse, often accompanied by a sharp threat. — rmkim^ywf 
lo^roi : will he a thing accomplished, i,e. shall surely be done, 

213. Kol wn ktX. : affords the motive for 210, and recalls Achilles 
from his decision to return to his home. Thou hast no need to wreak 
bloody vengeance on him, for thou shalt at some time receive " etc. — tcaX 
Tpit: even threefold, proverbial; cf rpU roraw 2W /acvos E 136.— 
vap/ovtrou : the gifts offered to Achilles as an atonement for the wrong 
are enumerated in I 121 ff. (seven tripods, ten talents of gold, twenty 
basins, twelve racehorses, seven slaves, etc.), in a passage closing ravra 
/4CV auruca iravra wapia-aerajL 1 135. These treasures were delivered in T 
243 ff. 

214. Hfpwt [v/8p€0)9] : for the form, cf woXItay 125. — tox<o : check thyself 

216. i&^v: indeed. — a-^^irtpov: of you two, Athena and Hera. The 
emphasis given by yc marks the reverence felt for these goddesses. — 
Ivot: word, command. — cip^trowOoi: protect, o&serve, by obedience. 

217. Kal ktX.. : " however much enraged." 

218. NC ictX. : i.e. if any one. " Whoever obeys the gods is himself 
heard by them." Cf lav ns Beoa^Pri^ y kol to B^Kqim avrav voiig, tovtov 
Akovu (sc. 6 ^cos) St. John ix. 31. — fuiXa: surely, readily. — r4: for its 
use in marking the reciprocity of the two clauses, see on 82; § 21 h. 

— IkXvov: gnomic aorist. See § 14/; H.840; G. 1292. — awrov: himself. 
The prominence given to the object of the verb which is also the subject 
of the previous clause, makes prominent the identity of the two, and con- 
trasts the man with ^cots. 

219. i{ KaC: he spake and, as 528, F 292, 310, 355, 369, 447. This is 
always used after a speech which is reported, where the same grammati- 
cal subject is continued. — r\: for this verb, see H. 485. — dfryvp^xi : adorned 
with silver nails or studs, see on B 45. — vyjiBt : kept, held, as A 113. 

220. ov8^ air(0i|0-iv : < litotes,' — in form saying less than is really meant, 

— see § 16 c. Cf 24, 536 f ., B 166, 807. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



25 



221. *A6t|vaCT|s : ^XOrjvfjIri is to *KOrpnti as avayKCUTj and yaua to dvayio; 
and yrj, — pcPifKctv: had set out, was gone; plpf. to mark her immediate 
departure. For the v of the ending, see §§ 30 k, 44 h. 

222. |MTa: into the midst of, among, as 423, V 264. — SaC|Mva« ^(XXovs: 
these assembled daily in the palace of Zeus as nobles in the hall of their 
feudal lord. Cf» oc B^oi vap Zftpa koBtiiuvol 'qyopotavro | XP^^^ ^ SaWSu 
All All were members of his family although they had separate man- 
sions (607). — Homer does not clearly distinguish between 8aifu»^$ and 
$€o{, but see on F 420. 

223-305. Renewal of the quarrel. Nestor endeavors to calm the angry 
princes. 

223^46. Speech of Achilles. 

223. c{airris: anew, after the interruption by Athena which no one 
had noticed. — \iiy€ x^Xoio : the goddess had not forbidden the anger, 
but only a certain expression of it. 

225. olvoPap^s : this was a grievous reproach in the eyes of the tem- 
perate Greeks. ^Kwos S^yuara,: see on 159. — cXo^to: the deer was the 
personification of cowardice ; cf. A 243. The poet shows in his story that 
these epithets were undeserved by Agamemnon. — Observe the * chiasmus/ 
i.e. that xvvos and eXa^oco are separated, while o/i/xara and KpaMrjv are 
brought together. See on 255. 

226. cs iroXc|Mv: for (lit. into) battle. For the lengthened ultima 
before the caesura, as 491, see on 153. — The last three feet of the verse 
are spondees, cf B 190. 

227. Xo'xovSc: cf. cs Xoxw €vBa pAXurr dperri ScactScToi AvBpSfy N 277 
to ambush, where especially the valor of men is discerned. The knights of 
the Middle Ages were the first to count ambush dishonorable. — opto^- 
HTviv [^/HOTcvcriv] : mark the contrast with Aa<p. 

228. WrXtiKos : hast had the courage. Cf 543. — icrfp : cf T 454, • *Tis 
death to me to be at enmity,' Shakspere Rich. 111. ii. i. 60. — The accent 
distinguishes ic^p death from icrjp heart. 

229. i| : in truth, yes. The speaker pretends to recognize his opponent's 
motives. 

230. oiroaipcCo^ai : present inf. in iterative sense ; the following clause 
supplies its object. For the hiatus between the preposition and the verb, 
see on 333. — WOcv: gen. after the adverb. — cSvrCov cCirg : oppose. 

231. Si||Mp^pos ktK.: emphatic exclamation of vexation. — cirel #crX.: 
this does not give the reason for the exclamation, but shows why Aga- 
memnon's course is possible. See on 112. — ovrtSavota-iv : interpreted by 
Achilles, 293 f . He holds the Greeks in part responsible since they did 
not oppose and restrain the king. 



26 



COMMENTARY. 



232. t| ktK, : for else, surely. With aor. opt as potential of the past, 
where in Attic we should expect a past tense of the ind. with av. Cf. B 
81; see § 18 S; H. 896; G. 1399. 

233. cirl ofioviiOi : swear thereto, take an oath upon it, 

234. ToSc o-id^vTpov : by this sceptre here, which he had just receired 
from a herald ; see on 15. For oaths by this symbol of power, see m 
ciircDv TO (TiajfWTfKw av€<rx€$€ iraxn deounv H 412 toith these words he lifted 
the sceptre to all the gods, 6 ^ cv (ncrprrpov kaipe kol ci ofuxro-cv K 328. 
So King Richard swears *N"ow, by my sceptre's awe, I make a vow,' 
Shakspere Rich, II. i. i. 118. — to |Uv: demonstrative. — "As surely as 
this staff shall never put forth leaves, so surely shall the Achaeans miss 
me sorely." — This is imitated by Vergil {A en. xii. 206 ff .) ,ut sceptrum 
hoc . . . nunquam fronde levi fundet virgulta nec umbras, | 
cum semel in silvis, imo de stirpe recisum, | matre caret, 
posuitque comas et bracchia ferro; | • . • patribusque dedit 
gestare Latinis. 

235. cvcl Si{ irpAra : see on 6. 

236. Yop see on 113. — I: the living shoot, while /uv below is the 
a-K^m-pov made from it. — x*^*^ • bronze ; cf. the English 
poetic use of steel for sword. See on B 417. 

237. ^^XXa ktX. : HXaj/ty as a * verb of depriving * is followed by an 
acc. of the thing taken away. — vvv avrc : now on the other hand, but now. 
atrt in this use differs little from avrdp. C/I A 321 ; see on B 768. 

238. SiKoo^Xot: appositive, as guardians of justice. — Ocfuarat: for 
the inflection, see H. 216 D 7 ; G. 291, 14, For its position, see § 11 j, 
cf. 10. 

239. irpos Ai4« : under the direction of Zeus, in the name of Zeus. Cf irpo? 
aAXi79 urrov vifMuvois Z 456. — clf>iaTat: defend, cf 216. — For the ending, 
see § 44 Z. — o Sc : attracted to the gender of opKo^, cf B 5, 73. See H. 631. 

240. r\: repeats the vol of 234. See on 86. — 'AxiXXtJos: instead of 
€/Lun5, with feeling. Cf B 259, T 99, and Hector's challenge to the bravest 
Greek to fight ^Ekto/m St<u H 75. Edmund says < Yet Edmund was be- 
loved,* Shakspere King Lear v. 3. 239 ; Antonio says * Tell her the pro- 
cess of Antonio's end,' id. Merchant of Venice iv. I. 274. 

241. <rv|jiiravTas : for the prominence of its position, see on 52. 

242. XP^<''H^^' avatV, help; without oblique case, as 589. — ^^'^^kto- 
pos OWjo-Korrfs : xnro is used since the verb is passive in sense, and active 
only in form, cf. T 61, 128. See H. 820. — For the epithet of Hector, cf 
homicidam Hectorem Hor. Epod. xvii. 12. 

243. irdrrMo-t: for the subjunctive, cf tKiafuu 139. — IvSoOt: "in thy 
breast." 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



27 



244. x«M»|Mvos : full of rage (sc, at thyself). — o tc : ori tc, that ; cf o 120, 
412. — ovScv: acc. of specification (strictly, cognate acc.) instead of the 
simple ov. — ^pMrrov : this was strictly true, see 283, B 769. See on Stos 7. 

245. itotI . . . yalf^ [yf ] : here a sign of anger. — irorC : adv. with fidXc. 
.It is followed by the dative because of the state of rest that follows the 
action. See on B 175. — In this act, Achilles says plainly that he will 
not discuss the matter further. 

246. iTfirapiMvov : studded^ as decoration. 

247-284. Speech of Nestor, who endeavors to reconcile the heroes, 

247. cTcpc»Ocv : see on 191. — l|ji^vic : was raging, continued his rage. See 
on 1. — Toto-i : for the dative, see on 68. — Nc (rrcop : the oldest and wisest 
of the Achaeans before Troy. He often gives good advice, as B 76 ff., 
336 ff., Z 66 ff. He was the most skilled of the Greeks in marshalling 
the army for battle, cf, B 555, A 297 ff. He is fond of relating his 
exploits, as his defeat of Ereuthalion A 318 ff. He tells a long story of 
his first battle against the Eleans, A 670 ff. The Third Book of the 
Odyssey is devoted to the visit of Telemachus, Odysseus's son, to Nestor, 
at his home in Pylus. — For his interposition here, cf Nestor con- 
ponere lites | inter Peliden festinat et inter Atriden:| 
hunc amor, ira quidem communiter urit utrumque. (quid- 
quid delirant reges, plectuntur Achivi, Hor Epist, i. 2. 11 ff. 

248. IIvXUv: see on B 591. — A^oprir^s: equiv. to Attic pi/rup. 
ayopri in Homer is used only of an assembly and its place of meeting 
(§ 17) ; it is never a * market.' 

249. Tov: relative, limiting yXwo-o^. — Koi: also, belongs to the 
whole sentence, referring to iJSvcTnJs which is explained by the compari- 
son ; cf 406, B 827, 866, 872. Cicero translates, ex eius lingua melle 
dulcior fluebat oratio de Sen,l(i\ cf, Homerici senis mella 
tibi profluere Pliny .Ei>. iv. 3, yXvKtprj ol &ko <rr6fmT0^ pea av^ 
Hes. Theog. 97. 

250. T<p : for the dative of interest with c^^uxro, cf B 295 ; see § 19 e, 
— 'ycvcaC: generations, reckoned as of about 30 years each. Since Nestor 
was now in the middle of the third generation, he is to be thought of as 
about Hhree score and ten ' years old. Cf ter aevo functus senex, 
Hor. Carm. ii. 9. In y 245, ten years after this scene, he is said to have 
reigned rpls yw* dvSpwv. 

251. k^taro: i<f>Oifi€voLL ^aav, § 44/. — ot: construction according to 
sense, referring to dvOpiUnrwv rather than to yevccu, — ol: dat. of accom- 
paniment with afm, — rpo^MV [crpa^iycrav] ktX. : for the *hysteron prote- 
ron,' see § 16/ The more important or obvious element is mentioned 
first. For the form, cf ^tcv 273 ; see § 44 m. 



28 



COMMENTARY. 



252. TpiTuroio-iv : ue, in the third generation. 
253 = 73. 

254. m irdvoi: can this be! — 'Ax<u(8a yaXav: t.«. the Achaeans. For 
the acc. of limit of motion, see H. 722 ;G. 1065. This construction is 
freq. with i#cci>, i#cav«i>, Iicvco/aoi, hut rare with Paivio, clfUf Ipxofuu. C/I 31 
322. 

255. The thought of the preceding verse is repeated in different form ; 
hence the lack of connective, see 16 b. — Yifii\a-ai: sing, to agree with 
the nearest subject ; contrasted with irhSo^ iKava. The aorist is incep- 
tive ; cf. 33 ; see H. 841 ; Good. 1260. For the form, see § 44 c — For 
the * chiastic ' arrangement of verbs and their subjects, cf. 225 ; see § 16 a. 

— np(a|M>« . . . irotScs: as T 288, A 31, <o/aov (rato) /9c/?^ocs (sc. Hera) 
JIpvoLfjuw JIpiafJiMO rc nalSaq A 35. 

256. Kcxopo^To : for the reduplication, see § 43 e ; for the ending, see 
§44/. 

257. o-^iv (jiapvc&iA^voiiv : de vobis rixantibus, genitive after 
wOoMTo. The participle is supplementary. — roSc : direct object of the 
verb. 

258. Iff pi |i^v, 7np\ Sc : construe with core, superior to. With the gen., 
as 287. — povX^v : as to counsel^ in council. — |iax«r6ai : in battle, like yAyrpf* 

— For the thought, cf. T 179, Tv8€t&;, irtpi fjxv TroXcfu^ Ivt Kafyrcpoq ccrcn, | 
Kcu. PavX-ff . . . lirXev apurro^ I 53 f . ^* First in war and first in peace," 
490 f ., B 202, 273. 

259. 8^ : see on 200. — Cf * Love and be friends, as two such men 
should be ; | For I have seen more years, I'm sure than ye.' Shakespere 
Jul. Caes. iv. 3. 131 f. 

260. Tffl Tnp v|jitv : i.e. 17c irep vfu2^ Ifrri. The pronoun is attracted to 
the case of dptiocriVy cf. olov ktX. 263 for olos JleiplOooi ^v. — Nestor here 
reckons himself with the former generations, in praising the past in con- 
trast with the present. 

261. KoX ov iroTc : the contrast might have been marked by dXAo, but 
is only implied by the context. — ot yt: emphasized with reference to 
dpeiooriv. 

262. 'yap: refers to dfieCooriv 260. — CS«i|uu: for the subjunctive as 
future, cf. B 488 ; see § 18 J; H. 868; G. 1321. 

263 f . IlciptOoov . . . IloX^^fiov : Lapithae, a Thessalian mountain- 
folk famed for its conflict with the centaurs. This strife began at the 
wedding-feast of Peirithous (a friend of Theseus) because of the inso- 
lence of the intoxicated centaurs ; cf. B 741 ff. The battle furnished 
subjects for the sculptures in the west pediment of the temple of Zeus at 
Olympia, for the metopes on the south side of the Parthenon at Athens. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



29 



for the decoration of the shield of Athena Promachus on the Acropolis, 
and for the ornaments of the shoes of the chryselephantine statue of 
Athena in the Parthenon, for the frieze of the temple of Apollo at 
Phigalia, and for the frieze of the tomb of Mausolus (the * Mausoleum ') 
at Halicarnassus, as well as for vases and other works of art. 

265. Theseus, king of Athens, was the most famous ally of the Lapi- 
thae. — cmcCKcXov: the hiatus between the prep, and the adj. is only 
apparent, see ikcAos § 32 a. 

266. KopTio^oi : pred., " these were the mightiest ever bom on earth," 
cf. B 216, 673. — For the repetition of KoprurroL, cf. that of wuOcaOai, 273 f . ; 
see § 16 b. — Srj : doubtless, strengthens the superlative, as it often does. 

267. |uv : without corresponding 3c, as 269 and freq. In such cases, 
it is equiv. to /ai}v. — co-av [^ouv] : without an augment. 

268. ^po-Cv: cf. ^pa? B 743. ^i^p is the Thessalian form of Orjp 
{cf. f era). It is used by Homer only of the centaurs, whose homes were 
in Thessaly. The centaurs are not described by Homer, but their dual 
nature (half man, half horse) seems to have been not yet developed in 
the story. — airoXco*o*av : d?raiXca-av. 

269. KaC : even. Construe with Townv. The new thought is introduced 
by W also 271, 273, with increasing emphasis. — The thought returns to 
261. — Toto-iv : i.e, the Lapithae. The dative is governed by /Acra in com- 
position. See on iroXiojv 125. 

270. c( ttirCi)s 7aCi)s : from a distant land, explains Tq\6$€v. — KoXco-avro : 
called to their aid. — Nestor is fond of relating achievements of his youth 
and strength. See on 247. 

271. Kar cji avrov: by myself alone, i.e. as a single champion. Cf. 
Kara <r<fi&i^ B 366. — KcCvouriv : i.e. the centaurs. 

272. ot v<»v #ctX. : who now live as mortals upon the earth, — crnxOovioi: 
equiv. to iirl x^ovi ovt€^. See H. 588. — fiaxcoiro : pres. opt. from /mx^o- 
fioi, a collateral form of fuixofmi, cf aiScio-^ 23 with alSofifva} 331. 

273. povXcMv [/JovXwv] : for the form, see § 34 d. — (vvicv [^wiWav] : 
cf. Tpd<l>€v 251 ; see § 44 n. — Note the parallelism of the two halves of 
the verse, c/. 79. 

275. ayaOos vcp iav : as 131. — «»iroaCpco [d^otpov] : ^ syncopated ' from 
&n'oaip€€o. It is followed by two accusatives, as 182. 

276. la : sc. Kovprfv. — irpora : as once, cf 6. — 8oo*av [cSoo-av] : see 
on 124. 

277. iitjTc Bi^A : noli, cf. B 247. — Poo-tXfji : used esp. of Agamemnon, 
as 9. 

278. dvTipCi)v : originally cognate ace, sc. Ipt&i, cf T 435. The adv. 
receives emphasis from its position. — ov tto9t o|&oCi)s : i.€. a greater. The 



30 



COMMENTABT. 



Greek idiom leaves to the connection the determination of the exact 
meaning. Cf. post mihi non simili poena commissa luetis 
Verg. Atn, i. 136. — ^mMpc: lias share of, heu received. This is followed 
by a ' genitive of the whole.' 

279. o-Kvprrovxos : see on 15. — if n Zcvs icrX. : see on 176. 

280. cl : not conditional in thought here but refers to a matter of fact. 
Cf, tl t6t€ KCfupOi CO, vvv atri /ac yrjpas on-o^ei A 321. — Koprcpos : as 178. 

— Oid 8^ ktX. : second clause of the protasis, explaining the first ; " being 
son of a goddess." — Oca: 'Le, Thetis, cf 351 ff. 

281. fSXXa: for its use in the apodosis, see on 82. — ^'prcpos: more 
powerful, — irXfovco-o-iv [irXcioo-iv] : see B 108, 576 ff. 

282. 'ArpctSi|, <rv 8^: the vocative often precedes the pronoun; it has 
no construction in the sentence and thus cannot be followed immediately 
by 8c. Cf B 344, "EicTop, &rap <rv /juh ia-cri irarrfp koL ttotvul fJififrrfp Z 429. 

— nik : cf 192, 207. — avrdp iyA -yc : " And I also on my part beg thee." 

283. XCaroro|uu: sc. ai. — 'AxiXXfjv: dative of opposition. The name 
is used with special emphasis, cf 240, instead of the pronoun (275, 281). 

— |u0/|uv [jjL£$€Lvai] : cf fjueO-qfiMv B 241. — os ^ya kt\. : gives the motive 
for the request. 

284. IpKos iroX/|&ou> : as A 299, cf c/9#co9 Sjcovrwy A 137, tpKo^ jScAccuv 
E 316. For the ablatival genitive, see § 19 a. With another use of the 
genitive, Ajax is called cp#co9 'Axa*wv T 229 bulwark of the Achaeans. 

286. varra: is not to be urged in meaning. It refers esp. to 284. 
" All this is true, but — Agamemnon admits no fault on his part, but 
throws all the blame on Achilles, cf dXXa below. 

287. ircpl iravTMv : see on 258. 

288. For the asyndeton, see § 15 b. This verse repeats the thought 
of the foregoing, in a different form. The speaker's passion is shown by 
the accumulation of synonymous expressions, § 12 d. 

289. a: in which, acc. of specification. — nvd: some one, esp. Agamem- 
non himself. — vcCo-co^cu : from ir€t$ia. 

290. atxi&t|Tt{v: pregnant, for KpaTcpo^: al^rfrri^ V 179. — lOcoxiv: 
equiv. to Attic €'iroaf(Tay, see on IBrjKiv 2. — aUv covrcs: cf $e!av euciycKC- 
Tttwv B 400. 

291. irpoOcovorvv: i.e. commission him, allow him. The word seems 
chosen here with reference to eOea-av. 

292. viropXi{ST)v : interrupting. 

293. t{ yap : Achilles gives at once the reason for his course. — koXcoC- 
|it|v: should be called, i.e. should be. Cf. B 260, T 138. 

294. From Agamemnon's complaint, 287 ff., Achilles infers that he is 
expected to obey in everything Qirav Ipyov). — cl Sif: "in case that 1 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



81 



actually." — iSirfC{o|uu: the form of the condition is changed, and the fut. 
indicative is used in the protasis instead of the optative. 

295. St( : construe with the imperative, as 131. — ravra : ue, irav cpyop 
vn-tiKtfrOai, — i&t) ^op f |&oC : in contrast with aXKouriv* 

296. ov : construe with Irt, as in prose they are united, ovKeri, — oC» : 
with the fut. inf., as 170. — This verse is parallel with 289. 

297. This verse is used when the speaker changes the subject in the 
middle of his speech. It is followed by the new thought, without a con- 
junction. — Of, accipite ergo animis atque haec mea figite 
dicta Verg. il«n. iii. 250. 

298. |uV : correlative with 8c 300. The contrast is changed from that 
between action and heart, to one between Kovpip and rlavSiXXiov* — icovfn|f : 
would have the article in prose. 

299. cl^'XcoHN : the aorist assumes that Agamemnon's threat has been 
executed, and the 2d person holds the Achaeans responsible because of 
their acquiescence (cf, 231). — Sovrcs : ye who gave, Cf. Achilles's words, 
yepa^ 8c fwi o$ irtp lS<t}K€v \ avros c^vj9pii(^(i>v cXcro KpcCtov *Aya/Ac/AV(i>v, I 
367 f. 

300. Oof: for such standing epithets, see § 12 b. — iropd ue. in 
my tent, cf, 329. — For the position of the adjective, see § 11 n. 

301. Tov : repeats ru)v oXAcov. — ovk av tv ^^pois : the opt. with av and 
a negative often expresses a confident expectation, and sometimes 
approaches a threat, as here. — ^'povs avcXwv : cf, aim cXw 139. 

302. ft: retains its original force as an interjection. "Up then, 
come." — : see on 62. — yytincx : shall recognize it, perceive t^, referring 
to the following verse. Cf. 185, 333. — For the form, cf. hwofnv 137. 

303. The preceding Trtlfyqam represents a protasis to which this would 
be the apodosis ; cf 583. " li be tries, he and the rest will find out." 

304. ^xr\m^v»: cf fuix^o^ai 8. — firfctra-iv [cn-ctrtv] : for the form, 
see § 36 6. 

305. oyoHn{n|v: stood up, rose from their seats. — Xvo-av: the dual and 
plural are seen to be used in this verse without special distinction. Cf 
321 ; see H. 634 ; G, 155. The speeches of 285-303 were uttered infor- 
mally, while sitting, cf 246. 

306-347. Purif cation of the camp. Chryseis is returned to her father. 
Briseis is led from the tent of Achilles. 

307. Mf votnoSn : Patroclus was so well known to the hearers of Homer, 
from old stories and songs, that he needed no more exact designation 
here. Cf. the use of 'ArpctSi/s 7. See § 39 h. When a boy in Opus, 
Patroclus killed a comrade in a fit of anger and was taken by his father 
to Phthia where Peleus received him kindly 84 ff.), and brought him 



32 



COMMENTARY. 



up with Achilles. He attended Achilles on this Trojan expedition as his 
warmest and most faithful friend and squire (^pairaiv). The narrative 
of his exploits fills a large part of the Sixteenth Book of the Iliad, He 
was slain by Hector (IE 818 ff.). To avenge his death, Achilles ends his 
quarrel with Agamemnon. Most of the Twenty-Third Book is occupied 
with an account of the funeral games in his honor. 

308. 'Arp^tSi|s ktX. : sc. as he had planned (apa), 141 ff. — irpocpvovcv: 
caused to be drawn down from its position on shore, cf, 486, B 152 f . 

309. fs 8c : as 142. All four adverbs (cs, am, cv) refer to vrja, sup- 
plied from 308. — cs 8c : into it, adv. with Prjae. — uIkovw : ships for other 
purposes than war generally have twenty oarsmen in Homer. 

310. Pij^c : for the causative use of this tense of fiatvia, cf, p-qtroyufv 
144. — ova : adv. with cTo-cv (aor. from tfo)) . 

311. a^Mv : see on twv 138. — apx<>s : cf, 144. — 'OSvoro-cvs : as iroKviLrfrvi, 
iraXv/Ai/xoivos, he was often sent on embassies, cf, V 205. See § 6 a. 

312. The story which is here broken off, of the voyage to Chrysa, is 
resumed at 430. 

313. dvoXv|&aCvca6ai : they were to purify themselves symbolically 
from the sin of Agamemnon which had brought upon them the pesti- 
lence. Cf, the action of the children of Israel, after their idolatry : < And 
they gathered together to Mizpeh, and drew water, and poured it out 
before the Lord, and fasted on that day, and said there. We have sinned 
against the Lord,' 1 Sam, vii. 6. They trusted that the pollution would 
depart from them into the sea, where they washed themselves. 

314. rcXi)co*axi« : see on 66. 

316. irapd Otva : as 34. The line of people was stretched out along 
the strand. 

317. mpl Kairv^ : around, in the smoke. See § 55 a. 

318. Transition to another scene, which fills the blank during the 
journey of the embassy to Chrysa. — xarA o^parov: (down) through the 
camp, cf, dvot, arparov 10, 53, Kara vrja% B 47, Kara P<afjuov^ B 305. — For 
the transition, at the ^Bucolic diaeresis,* see § 58 A. 

319. IpiSos: as 210. — irpwrov: once, see on 6. — cin|ircC\i|a'€ : see 
181 ff. 

320. TaXOiiPtov : the principal herald of Agamemnon. According to 
Herodotus (vii. 134), he had a sanctuary at Sparta, and his family lived 
there long as heralds. — Eupvparriv: only here as herald of Agamenmon. 
He is to be distinguished from Odysseus's herald of the same name, see 
on B 184. — irpoo-^ciircv : is regularly followed by the direct address in the 
next verse, but occasionally some incidental remark intervenes by way 
of parenthesis. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



33 



321. 6cpairovTf : companions, squires. Patroclus is Btpavm of Achilles, 
brave warriors are called Oepanovrc^ "Afnjoq (B 110), and kings are Oepdr 

322. IpxcirOov : here followed by the acc. of limit of motion, without 
a prep.; see on 254. — Agamemnon does not go in person (avro9 185) 
since Achilles had declared (298) that he would make no resistance. 

323. : gen. of the part touched, with cXovrc, cf. KOfirf^ 197, ttoSos 
591. — «yc|uv : inf. for the imv., parallel with Ip^trOav. See on Xvotu 20. 
— This contains an explanation of the preceding imperative and hence 
is not connected with it by a conjunction (§ 15 6), cf» 363, 

324 = 137, with Son/o-tv for SoWiv. 

325. KttC: strengthens piyiov. 

326. fci . . . IrcXXiv : as 25. — |&vOov : ue. the preceding conmiand. 

327. oiKovTc : because of their dread and reverence for Achilles, cf. 
331. For the form, see § 24. — PaTt)v [iprfrrpi] : dual forms generally 
have no aug. in Homer. — irapd Otva: cf, 347. The quarters of Achilles 
were at the extreme right of the camp, cf lir AwiKros icWuis ... ^8* hr 
* lL)(iX^xfOS, ToC p la^ra vrja^ cionas | upvcrav, rjvoperj irtawoi kou Kaprel 
X€ipwv A 7 ff . to the tents of Ajax and to those of Achilles^ who drew up their 
ships at the extremities of the line, trusting to their bravery and the strength of 
their arms. 

329. T^v : refers back to 322, viz. Achilles. 

330. ow8' £pa: but naturally not. — y^dria-^v : " did joy enter his heart." 
Inceptive aorist, cf. 33, 92, 255. 

331. TopPifo-avTf : seized by fear (the opposite of Oapai^aras 85), while 
the present otSo/xci/u) expresses the continued attitude of their minds. 

333. o' iyvut: for the hiatus, cf. 532, B 105; see § 27 I^vw: sc. 
their errand. Cf. 302. 

334. xai^m: the customary greeting. — Aios ayycXoi ktA^: they are 
inviolable servants of Sior/jc^cW PaxrCkriintv (on 176). Hermes is not yet 
the patron god of heralds in Homer. 

335. fvaCrioi : sc. Ifrri, to blame. Cf. 153. — 'AYaiUfivvv : sc. Ivalrio^ cori. 

336. i\ OS. — KovpT|s: Kovpo^ and Kovprf are used esp. of young men 
and women of noble families. But Kovpoi *Axaio>v (473) does not differ 
materially except in metrical form from vie? *Axajuov (162). 

338. &y€^v: final inf., cf fuix^irOai 8, dyepjev 443, B 477, T 117. — rii 8* 
avTcS: these two themselves. The very men who executed the imjust order 
are to be witnesses of its injustice and of Achilles's justification in with- 
drawing from active service. 

339. irpoc : in the sight of before. For the repetition of the preposition, 
ef that of iK 436 ff. — Ocmr, dvOpcSmty : for a strong all persons." 



34 



COMMENTARY. 



340. KcU: after rc. . . rc, gives special prominence to this clause.— 
irpos Tov PoooXifos anivcos : before that king, the cruel king, equiv. to irpos 
Tovrou TOV jScuriAcais rau din/voGs* For the order of words, cf, 11, tov 
hofiriTrjpa ma-fioXov B 275. Since the article is still a dem. in Homer, 
the foregomg are merely apparent exceptions to the rule that the attribu- 
tive adj. stands between the article and its noun. — Si) aurc: for the 
' syuizesis,' cf. 131. — aun : not again, marking a repetition ; but indicat- 
ing a situation opposed to the present, cf 237. 

341. xP<i«t Tf vipm : this happens in the Ninth Book, see § 7 t. — The 
object before the speaker's mind is Agamemnon. Hence at the close of 
the sentence, rocs aXXoi$ is used instead of the general word 'Axoums. 

342. rots oXXovs: dative of interest with afjLvvojL, cf 67. — yip: length- 
ened, as B 39, for an unknown reason. 

343. ov8c Tt: and not at all. — vo^o-cu ktX.: proverbial expression for 
prudence, cf T 109. — The infinitive follows oTSc knows how, 

344. ol: ethical dative with orooc fmx^oiaro. — |iax<<^^<^* 

should fight. The present of the principal sentence is followed by the 
optative, since the purpose is presented as a mere conception of the 
speaker's mind. For the ending, see § 44 /. 

347. &7Civ: as 338. 

348-^30. Achilles tells his grief to his mother. She promises to secure 
satisfaction for him from Zeus, 

348. cUxovo-a : this indicates that she was more than a mere ycpas to 
Achilles, and that his anger arose not simply from the insult offered to 
his dignity but also from wounded love. In T 287 ff., she mourns bitterly 
for the dead Patroclus on her return to the tent of Achilles. — -yvvti: ex- 
planatory appositive with 17. — The scene ends at the bucolic diaeresis 
(§ 58 A), cf, 318, 430. — a^rdp 'AxiXXcvs ktX, : a simple description of the 
effect which the loss of Briseis had upon the hero, without depicting his 
feelings in modem fashion. 

349. SaKpi^o-os : fell to weeping. Burst into tears is perhaps too strong 
a translation, but gives the force of the aorist. — jrapwv : construe with 
voo-<^t Xuur^ec?. — a^ap : const, with XuurBevs, cf 594. 

350. etv' 1^' oXos: i,e, iirl &tva ktX, Const, with ^(cra — 1^' is 
accented, in spite of the elision, in order to prevent us from construing 
it with oXos (55 c p), — dXos : aXs and BaXaxrtTa are the general words 
for sea; iroKros is the high, deep sea (often with reference to a particular 
tract, cf, B 145) ; TreXayog, the open sea. 

351. iroXXa : as 35. — opcyvvs : not ivaxrywv (x^ipas dwo^w' 450), since 
while invoking the sea-divinity he stretched out his hands toward the 
deep. Cf, I 568, where Althaea beats upon the ground as she calls upon 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



35 



the nether gods; palm as pon to ten dens utrasqne . . . Di, quibus 
imperium est pelagi Verg. Aen, v. 233 ff. 

352. IrtK^s tc: the prominence given by yc emphasizes the fact as 
responsible for the inference which is drawn from it. " Since you gave 
me birth, you ought to see that I am made happy. Zeus ought to give 
me honor." — |&iwv6a8iov: equiv. to cmcv/ao/dos 417. — Wp: in its original 
use^ very, 

353. Ti|&i{v mp : honor at least, placed first with emphasis. ' Chiastic ' 
with lavwSa&Jov (§ 16 a). — j^XXiv : the past tense of verbs of obligation 
is used to imply that the obligation was not complied with. — 'OXi|&ino« : 
is used in the singular only of Zeus, as 589, B 309 ; in the plural, of all 
the gods, as 399. 

354. iS^iPpciUnif : cf, havov 3^ Pp6vTrj<r€ mrrfp dvSpwv rc 0ca>v rc | 
vtpcBfv (thundered terribly from on high) Y 56. — vvv hi: but as it is, mark- 
ing a return to the reality from a merely hypothetical case, cf. 417, B 82. 
— ov8^ TVT^ov : not even a little, 

356. lx<i : differs from el\e chiefly in giving prominence to the 
possession as still continued. Cf, (of the same act) ctXer' Ix^i 8* SXoxov 
I 336. — diroipat : partic. of dinivpiov 430 ; explanatory of cA.u)v. For the 
strengthening by avros, cf, 137, 161, 185, 324. 

357. «« ^aro ktX. : cf, sic f atur lacrimans Verg. Aen, vi. 1. 

358. iroTpl Y^povn : i,e, Nereus, who is not named by Homer but only 
designated as oXtos ycpoiv (538). His home is in the Aegean sea. With 
him is Thetis, who has deserted her aged husband Peleus. 

359. clXos: ablatival gen,, from the sea. See § 19 a, — i{vt o|&CxXi): 
the comparison is esp. fitting for a sea-goddess. Like a mist, which rises 
easily and quietly from the water. Cf, * As evening mist | Risen from a 
river o'er the marish glides,' Milton Par, Lost xii. 629 f. — For the 
Homeric comparison, cf, 47 ; see § 14. 

360. inCpoiO' avroCo : before him(8elf). The intensive pronoun contrasts 
Achilles himself with his voice which his mother had just heard, cf, 47. 
See § 42 — SeSxpv xdovrot : the repetition of these words from 357 is 
characteristic of the fulness of Epic style. — The Homeric heroes were 
never ashamed to express emotion. They wept copiously. 

361. KaWp«(f : for the single p after the augment, see § 30 c, — For 
the Epic fulness, cf. 57, 88; see § 12 d, 

362. a-i, ^vws : accusatives of the whole and part, see on 150. 

363. l(avSa icrX. : the second imv. repeats the thought of the first, 
hence the asyndeton, cf. 323; see § 15 6.— -vo>: as in 132. — ct8o|Mv 
Id&ofuv] : for the short mode-vowel, cf 141 ff . ; see § 46, 

364. Papv : cf. evpv 355, and see on fUya 78. 



36 



COMMENTARY. 



365. otor0a : c/ 355 f. — ij : is not a simple sign of a question in Homer 
(see on 133), and hence can be joined with ri — ISvCtj [ctSutlgi] : for the 
short form of the stem, see § 49 g. Intransitive. — Though his mother 
knows all, Achilles tells the story. A man in sufferiDg finds relief in 
rehearsing his ills, and this recital was followed by the sympathy of the 
poet's hearers. The repetition is more natural because the consequences 
of these events continue through the whole poem. — ayopcvM : 'subjunc- 
tive of deliberation.' — For the verbal repetition, cf. B 10-15, 23-34, 
60-70. 

366. Observe that this story is introduced without a conjunction. — 
i^\6^%tk : sc, on his marauding expeditions in the neighborhood of Troy. 
See on 125. — 8t{Pi|v: a city of the Cilicians, in Mysia, at the foot of 
Mt. Placus, an eastern spur of Mt. Ida. Eetion, father of Hector's wife, 
Andromache, reigned there, Z 394 ff . — The connection of Chryseis with 
Theba is not made plain. Was she there on a visit ? Or were Theba 
and Chrysa sacked on the same expedition ? — Upi{v : since the gods were 
worshipped there. — For the simple order of words, see § 11 h, 

367. -^YoiMv cvOaSc : Andromache tells of the sack of the city, of her 
father's death and her mother's captivity, in Z 414 ff. 

368. f V : properly, so that each received his due share. — 8oo-<ravTo : cf. 
Sc&urroi 125, 8a(r/A09 166. 

369. CK 8* ^Xov: as ycpas (^^cupcrov, cf, B 227), besides his share of 
the spoils. See on 124. — The capture of Chrysa (37) on the same expe- 
dition is assumed here. B 690 ff. shows that Lyrnessus was sacked, and 
Briseis taken captive, on the same voyage. 

371-379 = 12-16, 22-25. 

380. iraXiv : hack; cf ttoXilv irXayxBivrwi 59, 8ofievai iraXjLv 116. 

381. ^CXos ifcv : sc, 6 ycpcov. This was shown by the event. 

382. €ir 'Ap7cCouri : cirt with a dative of the person, in Homer often 
implies hostility, like lirl with the acc. in prose; cf 51. — Koictfv: cf 10. 
— pAos : as 51. 

383. cirour(H>Tcpov : in quick succession, cf 52. 

384. [yiiuv] : for us, 

385. OcoirpoirCa« : as 87. — cVarovo : of the Far Darter, cKaro? is a short, 
*pet' form of kKarqPoKo^ (as 'EKan; was a name of the moon goddess). 
Cf 'StfuvOfv 39. For similar epithets of Apollo, see § 22 c. 

386. avrUa : for the lack of a conjunction, see § 15 c?. — KfXo|&i|v : cf 
62 ft,, and see on 74. 

387. 'ATpcto>va kt\, : equiv. to 'ArpcW cxoXw^ (cf, xoXo)^€4S 9). 

388. ij^f (Xi)<rcv |&vOov : the English idiom reverses the construction, he 
uttered the threat. — o : os, as 336. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



87 



389. njv |uv : contrasted with r^v Si 391. — ot»v vh( ; with a ship, almost 
equiv. to by ship. This expression seems more instrumental than where 
the comrades also are mentioned, cf, 179, 183. 

390. vcfiirovo-iv : escort (§ 17). The pres. is used since the act is not 
completed. The * historical present * is not Homeric. — ctyovo-i 8f : a sub- 
ordinate member of the sent., with * chiastic ' relation to ir€ixwov<nv (§ 16) . 

— avcMCTH Apollo, cf. 36, 444. 

391. ttJv 8c kt\. : contrasted with 389. — Wov : adv. with e/Jav ayovrc?. 
— ipav [c/3i;<mv] a^ovris: cf. Ifiav <l>€pov<mL B 302, <^€vya)v B 665. 
oixo/uat is mor« freq. thus used with a partic, c/I B 71, cix^orOajL irpwtii' 
povaa OveXXoL Z 346. See on iwv 138, 168. 

392. Soo-av kt\. : as 162, see on 124. 

393. iratSds ir\os : thy valiant son. It seems part of the poet's naivete 
that the heroes apply such epithets to themselves ; but the phrase is part 
of the poet's stock, and he hardly thinks whether he is applying the epi- 
thet himself or is putting it in the hero's mouth. 

394. ACa : for the length of the ultima before Xarai, see § 59 A. — ct 
vorc : cf 39, 503 ff. 

395. ?vcfc, cp7f : emphatically placed in contrast, at the beginning and 
the close of the verse. — KpaS(i)v Aios : for the * periphrasis,* see § 16 rf. — 
rft KaC : or also. 

396. iroXXoKv : for the omission of final 9, see § 30 /. — o*co : gen. of 
source with aKovau. — irarpos : i-e. of Peleus, in Thessaly, where Thetis 
seems to have remained after her marriage until the outbreak of the 
Trojan war ; cf, H 221 ft. (where mention is made of the chest of 
Achilles that Thetis had packed for him as he set out for Troy). See 
on 358. 

397. cvxo|Uw|s : supplementary participle with <reo, cf, 257. — ktA.. : 
explains €vxofA€vrfs, see § 11 j. 

398. ociKca kt\, : as 341, cf. 67. 

399. oinroTc: when once upon a time. — Thetis makes no use of this 
suggestion in her interview with Zeus. 

401. cXOovo*a: see on latv 138. — Oca: marks her power to accomplish. 

— vircXv«rao 8c<r|iMv : didst loose from under the chains^ didst free from, the 
pressure of the chains. — Transition to direct discourse from the infinitive 
construction of 398, cf, B 12, 126 ; see § 11 e. 

402. cKaroTx^^Pov : cf. centimanus Gyas Hor. Carm, ii. 17. 14, 
b e 1 u a c e n t i c e p s ib. ii. 1 3. 34. — KoXcVoura : by calling, coincident in 
time with vTreXuroo. 

403. BpiopcMv : by transfer of quantity for Bpiapifoy, § 23 c. The 
name (^^avy-handed, cf jSpcapo?) marks his strength and character. 



38 



COMMENTARY. 



He is called AcyotW (^Stormt/f cf. cuyts, Alyal, Atyim) in the popular 
speech, as a sea-divinity. He is the personified might and roar of the 
sea. Hesiod makes him aid Zeus against the Titans. — Homer attributes 
to the language of the gods names which are going out of use (but which 
may seem clearer in meaning than the others), cf. B 813 f. 

404. ttvTf: on his part, — irarpos: i,e, Poseidon, the mighty god of 
the sea. All of Poseidon's sons are represented as violent and strong. 

— o^: see on ijv 72. 

405. ^ : 80 he ; for the demonstrative use of the relative, see § 42 /. 

— Kv8ci yaiMv : delighting in the fulness of his might. 

406. KttC: cUsOf marks the effect corresponding to kvSci yatW. See on 
^9. — vWScbo-av : for the length of the antepenult, see on 33. viro with 
verbs of fearing, fleeing, yielding, marks the superiority on the side of 
the person who is the efficient cause. — W : indicates the close connection 
of the two clauses, cf. 82, 218, B 179. 

407. Tw: see on 160. — |i(v: const, with /xvi/oaaa, — 'irapc^co would 
govern the dative. — yovv»v : for the genitive, cf 323. — This was 
the attitude of a suppliant, cf. 500 ff. 

406. at K^v ir«s : c/I 66. — cirl ofit|fai : come to the aid of Cf the force 
of €irtin 345. 

409. Kara v^^vtm : the ships were drawn up with their stems toward 
the land. — a|i^' oXa : about the sea, i.e. on the shore between the promon- 
tories Sigeum and Rhoeteum. Until now the battles had been fought on 
the plain, far from the ships and near the city. Cf. Achilles's words, o^pa ' 
8* iydi fi€T 'A;(atot<nv irokifu^ov, \ ouk iO^Xea-Ke fuixfiv airb Tct^co? 6pvvfi€v 
"Eicnop I 352 f . As long as I was fighting among the Achaeans, Hector was 
not willing to rouse the battle away from the wall (of the city). — 'Axaiovs: 
in apposition with tous. 

410. ciravpMvrai : may come to enjoy ; ironical . Cf. quidquid deli- 
rant reges, plectuntur Achivi Hot. Epist. \. 2.1^. 

411. KttC : also, i.e. as well as the other Greeks. 

412. an)v : his blind infatuation, his blindness. This is made more 
definite by o tc kt\. {i.e. &n tc), as 244. Cf. B 111. 

413-427. The answer of Thetis. 

413. Kara : construe with xiovavu 

414. tC w: why now, to what end. Acc. of specification. — aivd: cog- 
nate acc. with T€KovaxL, dreadfully, to sorrow. Cf. kokq alirg 418. Thetis 
calls herself Sva-apurroroKeui 3 54 mother of an unhappy hero. 

415. atO* ^(^cXcs : for this form of expression for an unattainable wish, 
see H. 871 a; Good. 1512 — dSdKpvros ktX.: i.e. full of joy and happi- 
ness. This thought receives the emphasis. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



89 



416. alcra : sc. ItrrL Here like oicav term of life, — |&(wv6a : adv. modi- 
fying the Itrri to be supplied, which is sometimes modified by an adv. in 
Homer (§ 19 h), Cf dx^ cyciwro munrg V 95, ovS op in 8^ | Z 139 f . 
**nor did he live long." — ov n. i&aXa St{v: the preceding thought is 
repeated in negative form. — For the length of the ultima of /ioAo, see 
§69 hp. 

417. vvv 8^ : as 354. — t4: its position is free, cf B 281. 

418. lirXfo : thou art, lit. thou becamest by decree of fate ordered at thy 
birth. — T^: therefore. She infers from the foregoing, not the fact but 
the justification of the expressions cum reicovaa, Kcucy alay, — Koicg abrQ : 
to an evil lot. 

419. Tovro liro« : ue. 407 ff. — to£ : dat of interest, cf. roC 425 f . — 
Ip^ovo^: fut. partic, expressing purpose. — For the two * hiatus' in this 
verse, see §§ 27 /, 32. 

420. "OXvi&irov aTawt^v : see on 44, 195, 497. — at kc ir(Oi)rai : see 207. 

421. vv |Uv : correlative with 426. The interposed explanation makes 
it natural to change the form of the apodosis from cyu 3c. — vvv : i.e. until 
her visit to Zeus. — vofnfiMvos: as 488. Inactivity is implied, cf B 688, 
694. — Thetis does not encourage her son to carry out his threat of 169, 
to return to Phthia. 

422. i&Ti'vtc : pres. imv., continue to rage, see on 210. See on /a^viv 1. 

423. Zcvs -yap ktX. : gives the reason for the preceding direction, esp. 
for vw, showing why his request cannot be granted at once. — cs 'fiKcavov : 
to the abode of Oceanus, near which was the home of the Aethiopians. 
The Aethiopians lived in the southeast and southwest of the Homeric 
world. They are represented as a god-fearing people, enjoying the per- 
sonal intercourse of the divinities. — |ura : as 222. — AlOuMnfas [Ai^unras] : 
for the form, see § 37 a. 

424. x^^Us : pred. adj. instead of adv., as 472, 497, B 2, F 7. See § 56 a. 
— Kara [/icra] SaSra : cf Kara irprjiiv for trade, TrAa^dficvoi Kara krji&i wan" 
dering for plunder. — a|Ui irovrfs : cf 495. — lirovro : apparent contradiction 
of 195, 221 f., where Athena and Hera are thought of as on Olympus. 

425. S«»8cKarQ: cf. 54. This is reckoned from the day on which 
Thetis is speaking. 12 is sometimes a round number, in Homer as well 
as in the Bible. — ^Xcvtrfrai : Attic citn. 

426. xc^KopaWs : toith bronze threshold, an epithet applied four times 
to the home of Zeus, once to that of Hephaestus, and once to the palace 
of Alcinous. The threshold of wood was probably covered with a plate 
of bronze. The floor of the hall of Zeus was covered with gold, A 2. 
Cf. * and the floor of the house he overlaid with gold, within and without,' 
1 Kings vi. 30, of Solomon's temple. 



40 



COMMENTARY. 



427. KcU |uv, KoC |uv: for the animated repetition, cf. koll fuv pdXjov 
Zfioy . . . Ktu fUv iy<a y iffMfJLTjv 'AiScov^i irpoiajtfftiv E 188, 190 and I hit him 
in the shoulder^ and 1 said that I should send him to Hades, — yovvwro^: 
cf, Xafik yovyiay 407. 

428. cMTf Piio-cTo : only in this place in the verse, before the bucolic 
diaeresis (§ 58 A) ; elsewhere, dir^Prj is used, see § 50 5. — avrov : inten- 
sive when adverbial (not very freq.) in Homer, as well as when a strict 
pronoun. 

429. TwcuKos : gen. of cause, with ;(o)o/Acyov. See on cyxcuX^? 65. 

430. ktX,: by force, against his toill. — (Ukovtos: sc. Wey, gen. of 
separation. 

430-487. Chryseis is conducted to her home. The scene in Chrysa 
naturally intervenes between the promise of Thetis and its fulfilment, 
and thus seems to fill up in part the 12 days' delay. See on T 121. 

430. atMp 'OSvovivf ktX, : c/! 311 ff. — For the beginning of the narra- 
tive, cf, the transition at avrap 'A^iAXcvs 348. 

431. txavcv a7«tv : cf, tpxoyi €')((av 168, ^kc Tura'atfiipvrp exwv rrfv cavrov 
dvvofuv Xen. An, ii. 4. 8. ay<ov with is used because the hecatomb was 
composed of live animals. 

433. Wria a^Ckavro: they took in their sails. The middle takes the 
place of a possessive pronoun. Cf, 480. 

434. irpoTovobo-iv : forestays, the ropes leading from the prow to the? 
top of the mast; iirCrovoi, haclcstaysj were stretched from the stern. Both 
together served to hold the mast in place. — v^'vrfs : lowering, 

435. irpo^pcovav : when near their haven, they furled their sails, and 
rowed the boat to land. 

436. f K 8c : for the * anaphora,' cf 339 f ., B 671 ff . — cwos : these were 
large stones which served as anchors. These were cast from the prow, 
while the wpvfivrjaui (476) held the stem. When the boat was to remain 
long, it was drawn up on land. 

437. Patvov: for the descriptive imperfect, see on d^ct 25. — ivl: for 
the length of the ultima, see § 59 j. 

438. f^vav : 1st aorist, transitive. Cf 144, 310, lonyoav 448. 

439. The rhythm has been thought to imitate the maiden's measured 
steps, § 13 6. — CK : adv. as above, but more exactly defined by n^os. — 
W : for the short vowel lengthened before two consonants, see § 59 /. — 
irovTovopoio : cf, T 283. 

440. iirl p«»|ufv : the god is thus made a witness of the return. Thus 
in a Boeotian inscription a man emancipates his slave ivavrCov ^ Ka-KkyprCav 
in the presence of Asclepius. The priest dwelt in the sacred enclosure 
(rc/ACvo«, dXoos) of the god. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



41 



441. cv xtpaX tCOci : placed in the arms. For ^eCp as arm, cf. Z 81, 482. 
^rCOii : for the form, see on d^ci 25. 

442. irpo lvc|i^cv : cf. irpo ^kc 105. 

443. For the chiasmus, see § 16 a. — oy^iMv : for the inf., cf, ayeiv 338. 
^4Karo|JiPi|v ^'(ai: cf Upa pc^$ 147. 

444. viTf p AavcuSv : in behalf of the Danal, This figurative use of inrfp, 
freq. in later Greek, liardly appears elsewhere in Homer. 

446. Chryseis here disappears from the stoiy. 

448. 4£c(i|s: in order, since iKarofifiTp/ is collective. — lm|o-av: 1st 
aorist, transitive, cf P^<mv 438, dmim/(rcicv 191. 

449. xtpvi^avro : they could not pray to the gods with unwashen hands. 
Cf r 270, ^ avCtrrouTLv Ail Xei/^etv alOanu o?vw | d^Ofuu (dread) Z 
266. — ou^x^Tos : unground barley corns (ovXm KpL$al) which, roasted 
and mixed with salt (cf * with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt,' 
Levit, ii. 13), were scattered between the horns of the victim (irpoPaKoirro 
458) as an initiatory sacrifice, whence they were proleptically called aiiko- 
yyrai poured out barley corns, — ovcXovto : took up, sc, from the basket 
standing on the ground. 

450. rotaxvifor them, as 68, 247. — licyoXa: loudly, cf iroXXa 35. — 
Xctpag dvaox«*v : the palms were extended towards the gods, the usual 
attitude in prayer, as is shown by works of art. Cf 351, T 318. So also 
among the Hebrews. Cf * And it came to pass, when Moses held up his 
hand, that Israel prevailed ; and when he let down his hand, Amalek pre- 
vailed,' Exodus xvii. 11. See Vocabulary s.v, x^^P' 

451 f. = 37 f . With the same formula with which he began his prayer 
for vengeance, he now prays that the punishment may be averted. 

453. <nP^v, liSc : paratactic construction, where the Eng. idiom uses " as 
. . . so," see § 21 d. — Srf irorc : once already, correl. with ct* 455 once more. 

454. Explanatory * appositive asyndeton.' — TC|ii)<ra« ktX, : sc, by send- 
ing the pestilence which avenged the slight offered to the priest. 

455. Kttl yvv : contrasted with irdpo^ above. — toSi ktA.. : as 41. 

456. tfSr) vvv : now at once, — Aavaototv ktX. : cf 97, 
457 = 43. 

458. In the sacrifice described y 440 ff., the victim's forelock is cut 
off and thrown into the fire, before the barley corns are scattered. — 
avrdp ml : this is repeated in this narrative 464, 467, 469, 484. 

459. av^pvo-av : they drew up (back) the head of the victim, in order 
to tighten the muscles of the neck. For the form, see § 29 c. — c«r^a{av : 
i,e. opened the large artery of the neck, to let the blood. 

460. |&i|po«f f{^Ta|M>v : instead of the more definite ck firjpCa rdfivov, see 
on 40. — KvCo^n: dative of means. Two layers of fat were placed over the 



42 



COMMENTARY. 



thigh pieces ; and upon the fat, bits of raw meat from all parts of the 
body (irdvTiiw /xcXcW), symbolizing a sacrifice of the whole animal. 
These were burned, and thns the gods, according to the Homeric belief, 
took part in the sacrificial feast. Cf, 317. 

461. SCvTvxa : sc. Kvicn^, eqaiv. to StVAoici &fffjM. 

462. KoSc: sc, the fji.rfpCa with the fat and bits of flesh. — oxftti* • ^f* 
B425. 

463. vcot: i.e, the companions of Odysseus, in contrast with 6 yipmnvy 
the old priest. Cf. B 789. — wop" avrov : hy the priest himself y who is 
thus marked as the principal, directing person at the sacrifice. — iri|&ir»- 
PoXa: these bronze forks prob. had bent tines, like some antique Etrus- 
can bronzes that have been found, not unlike a hand with fingers bent in 
readiness to grasp some object. See the Vocabulary s.v, 

464. Kara Kcni : these pieces were intended for the gods and therefore 
were entirely {Kara) consumed by the fire, cf. 6 S* cv irvpL jSaXAc ^Xa« 
I 220 he threw the sacrificial pieces into the fire. — vao-avro: sc. in order to 
have a share in the sacrifice. This was no part of, but only an introduc- 
tion to, the meal which followed. 

465. |&((rrvXXov ktA. : cf pars in frusta secant, yerubusque 
trementia f igun t Verg. i. 212. 

466. mpt^poS^MS : sc. to keep it from burning. — i^vayro : drew it off 
from the spits, after it was roasted. 

467. iravo-avTo : the aorist ind. is often used in relative clauses (with 
cTTCt) where the English uses the pluperfect. See H. 837. 

46a llanfs : equal, i.e. of which each had a fair share. The feast was 
common to all, but the leaders had the better portions. 

469. A set verse to mark the end of a feast, see § 12 A. Vergil imi- 
tates in postquam exempta fames et amor compressus 
edendi Aen. viii. 184. — ij: const, with hro. — Ipov [cpoira] : for the 
form, see § 37 &. — The previous pouring out of the wine is not mentioned, 
as might be expected. 

470. Kovpoi |iiv kt\. : sc. for a solemn libation of the whole company, 
since only Chryseis poured a libation before, 462. — iroroto : genitive after 
the idea of 'fulness ' in the verb. — This verse seems to have been misun- 
derstood by Vergil (or did he think to improve the description?), c/. cra- 
teras magnos statuunt et vina coronant Aen. i. 724, mag- 
num cratera corona | induit, implevitque mero ^cn.iii. 525f. 

471. v(&|iT|«rav: (sc. ttotw), a frequentative of vc/luo. The oivoxoos 
dipped (d^wo-wv 598) the wine from the large bowl {Kfyrjfrqp) into a 
pitcher (wpoxoos). The KovpoL proceeded from left to right (cvSc^ia 597) 
through the company, distributing to the guests (iracnv to all), i.e. filling 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



43 



their cups for the libation and the banquet. — lirap{d|uvoi : thus beginning 
the religious ceremony, equiv. to Apia/i€voi iiriyifujvres* Const, with 

472. vavi||Upiov : through the whole day which remained, uninterruptedly 
till sunset. For the predicate adj. used where the English idiom uses an 
adv., see on 424. — jvoXir^ : song, 

473. KoXdv : cognate acc. with deiWrc?, instead of koXIo^, cf. 35, 78. 

— voi^ova [muaya] : here a song of praise to Apollo as their preserver. — 
The verse explains /loKiry above. 

474. |jiXirovTfs ktX. : cf. * Hymning th* eternal Father * Milton Par. 
Lost vi. 96, * singing their great Creator ' ib. iv. 684. — For the quantity 
of the ultima of /xcXttoi^cs, see §§ 32 a, 59 j. — ^p^va: see on #c^p 44. — 
tipmr dKo^Mv : delighted in hearing. The god hears the song (as he had 
heard the prayer), although he was far away, among the Ethiopians. 

475. 4irl ifXOcv : carne on. 

476. KOi|ii^o*avTo : observe the force of the aorist, laid themselves to rest. 

— iropoi ir|ra|&v^(rioi i along by the stem hawsers (see on 436 ), i.e. on the sea- 
shore. Their boat was not drawn up on land. 

477. ^oSoSdicTvXos : a notable epithet. ^The ancients had observed 
the diverging rays of rosy light before sunrise. Cf. 'Hws #cpo#caircirXo9 
(saffron-robed) ® 1. 

478. Kol T*T€: T^/ios is expected after iy/Aos, but the relative is not 
always followed by the corresponding demonstrative. For koI in the 
apodosis, see § 21 b. — dvd*yovTo : (were putting out), put out upon the high 
sea, cf. KarayovTo came to land. 

479. tK|Mvov ovpov kt\. : Aeolus was master of the winds, but each 
god could send a favorable breeze. 

480. o^o-avTo: for the middle, see on 433. — Irrla: strictly an adj. 
which has become a substantive, what pertains to the urro^. The Homeric 
boat seems to have had but one sail. 

481. adv. 

482. irop^pcov: foaming. — |&rydXa: const, with taxc. — vi|6s: in the 
transitional stage from limiting gen. with (rrcCpy to the gen. absolute; 
see § ID j3. 

484. ^ : refers to the preceding verse. — Kara rrpar6v : opposite (ojf) 
the camp, i.e. to the landing-place. — The verse closes like 478. 

485. vr\a |Uv : correl. with avroc 8c. — 4ir iprcCpoio : up on land. 

486. v^ov ktX. : i.e. so as to rest high on the sands, where it was 
before, cf. 308. — vwo W: adv., beneath, i.e. under the ship. — Ipfutra: as 
B 154, props (sometimes stones), which were put along the keel on either 
side in order to hold the boat steady. 



44 



COMMENTARY. 



488-^530. Zeus grants to Thetis the fulfilment of her desire, 

488. a^^rdp i (i^vu : sc. as his mother had directed, 421 f . ; cf 428 f . — 
Achilles withdraws from the action for the present. In the Ninth Book, 
an embassy is sent to him, begging him to give up his wrath and take 
part in the war (1 119 ff.). In the Eleventh Book, he is roused from his 
apathy on seeing the rout of the Achaeans (A 599 ff.). In the Sixteenth 
Book, when Hector reaches the Greek ships and throws fire into one 
of them, Achilles sends Patroclus and the Myrmidons into the conflict 
(n 1 ff.). He receives the news of the death of Patroclus in the Eigh- 
teenth Book (S 1 ffO> reconciled to Agamemnon in the Nineteenth 
Book and arms himself for battle (T 40 ff., 364 ff.). He takes part in 
the fourth (and last) great battle of the Iliad, on the 27th day of the 
action of the Ilifid. See, further, § 9. 

489. vUf : for the short penult, where i has been virtually lost between 
two vowels, see § 23/. — ir^Sat «kvs ktX. : cf 58, see § 12 b. 

490. For the * asyndeton,' cf 117, 255, 288, 363. — wX^o-Kiro : for the 
* iterative ' formation, see § 54. — icvSidvcipav : elsewhere epithet of fmxrjy' 

— The poet does not say whether assemblies were held, and battles fought 
during these days, but perhaps he implies it. 

491. ir6Xc|iov: for the long final syllable, see on 153. — in|p: object 
of <f>OivvO€aK€. 

492. av6i : right there, in the same place, ue. in his tent. — voMco-kc 8^ : 
the partic. iroBimf might have been used in the same sense. See § 21 A. 

— &vHjv: battle cry. Always a trisyllable, and thus never to be con- 
founded with avTTfv herself 

493. 4k toSo: the hearer easily recalled the words of Thetis (which 
form the starting-point of the /i^i?), 421 f., and the definite statement of 
time, 425, and referred €#c roio to that interview between mother and son. 

494. lo^v [^oPttv or ifctrav] : the stem of c7/u is here preserved, without 
augment. 

495. ijpxi : led the way, as the highest in rank. Cf. V 420. 

496. •{'yc: resumes the subject, see on 97. — &vc8^o^to Kv|ia : i.e. as 
she sprang up she left the wave. Cf. 359. 

497. "ncpCti : cf 557, V 7. With emphasis in this position in the verse. 
•* While it was yet early morning." — oi^pavov OvXv|iir6v ri : see on 44, 
195. 

498. ci^piionu: far sounding, far thundering. For the form, perhaps a 
stereotyped nominative, see § 34 b. 

499. AKpordrxi Kopv^'g : from which he looks out upon the world again, 
after his long absence. Cf. summo sedet altus Olympo Verg. 
Aen. xi. 726. — iroXvScipdSos : epithets appropriate to men are often 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



45 



applied to natural objects. Cf, Kapijvfay 44, < foothills,' < shoulder of the 
mountain,' * arm of the sea,* * mouth of the river.* 

500. irdpoiOc koO^cto : cf. P 162. — yo^imv : see on 407. 

501. o-Ktti^, Sc(iWf»ti : for the adjectives used as substantives, see on 54. 
— vir &v6cp4c»vos : under the chin, as T 372. 

502. ACa KpovCttva : closely connected, cf. B 375. 

503. Zfv irdrcp : this address, put into the mouths of gods and men, 
marks his patriarchal, royal dignity; cf, 534, 544, hominum sator 
atque deorum Verg. Aen, xi. 725, divum pater atque homi- 
num rex i6. i. 65. — ctiroTt: c/l 394. 

505. TC|ii|o-ov: by its position is strongly contrasted vrith ^t/Lii^cv, 
507, cf 353, 356. — cMcviiop^raros : into this is condensed the thought of 
415 ff. — oXXmv : of ally lit. in comparison with the rest. Ablatival gen., as 
with the comparative (where it marks the starting-point of the compari- 
son). — This construction with &Xko)v is specifically Homeric. Cf B 
674, Z295,hi ceterorum Britannorum fugacissimi Tsui.Agric. 
34, solusque omnium ante se principum [Yespasianus] in 
melius mutatus est Tac. Hist. i. 50, 'Adam the goodliest man of 
men since born | His sons, the fairest of her daughters, Eve,* Milton 
Par. Lost iv. 323 f . — Cf. this construction with /icra Traa-iv drtfuyrdTq 
516. 

506. IvXcTo : see on 418. — &rap #crX. : for the transition from the 
relative to the demonstrative construction, see on 79. 

507 = 356. 

506. vip : in contrast with Agamemnon. Cf. the force of Trep in 
353. — 'OXi>|imc kt\. : as she renews her request, she renews impressively 
her appeal to the might and wisdom of Zeus. 

509. M, rCOii: put upon, grant to; c/l B 39. 

510. o4^XX«»o'iv kt\. : only here construed with a person. — Thetis as 
a suppliant presents her request in general terms, while Achilles had 
spoken more definitely, 409—412. Cf ^EiicTopi ydip oi (Zeus) Ovjjlo^ i^ov- 
kero KvSo^ 6p€(ai \ HpiapiSy, iva vrjv(ri Kopwvia-L OctrjnSoue^ Trvp \ ipPdXoi 
oKoparov, 0€ti8os 8* i^ala-ujv dp^ \ irdaav €7rt#cpiyv€i€ O 596 ff., the heart of 
Zeus wished to give glory to Hector, son of Priam, that he might throw fire 
into the ships, and accomplish all the dreadful prayer of Thetis. 

511. njv kt\ : the reason of this silence appears from 518 ff. 

513. MS : dem. corresponding to the rel. cS? above. — 4|&irc^wta : lit. 
grown into, closely clinging to, cf. the formula Hv r dpa ol <^C x€ip{ Z 253. 
Construe with l^x^"^^ ^ 'r/wxr<^us ^X^f'V^ ^ wicTcpt? p 433, clinging to 
this, I held on like a bat. Cf. et genua amplexus, genibusque 
volutans | haerebat Verg.-4en. iii. 607f. For the form of €fwr€<^w2a. 



46 



COMMENTARY. 



see S 49 a. — cCpcro: aslced^ as she demanded a 'yes' or *no.* — Scilrtpov 
avTi« : again, a second time. Cf, iraXiv avrts B 276. 

514. vi||uprls : adv. — vvdirxfo koX KarAvcoo-ov : set expression, only at 
the end of the verse, c/'..B 112, xnritrrqv #ceu #carmv(ra A 267. jcaraveixi) is 
the contrary of dvavcwa nod up (Z 311). Thus even now in Greece, nega- 
tion is indicated by an upward motion of the head, and affirmation by a 
downward nod (with an inclination toward the left). 

515. &ir6cm: speak out plainly; refuse is implied in the context. — 
i.e. €ir€(m, § 55 c.--«Thou hast nothing to fear." — *+p' Iv clScS: 

cf. 185. 

517. ox^^o'os : inceptive, see on 33 ; but not so violent as " falling into 
a passion," or " bursting into a rage." Cf. Sajcpwra^ 349. 

518. XoC'yta ipya : sc. lorot, as 573. There will he dreadful trouble. — 
Sr€ : when, not ft, if since Zeus sees the inevitable consequences and 
already has the situation before his mind's eye. 

519. *Hf»ti : emphatic, since Hera desires the most speedy destruction 
of Troy (A 31 ff.). 

520. KcX a«r«« : even as it isy without special occasion. See § 42 — 
aliC : exaggerated, cf 541, 561. 

521. ttni ii ^ ^o-i : and says too that 1. kol marks the agreement of 
this specification with the preceding general remark, cf T 235. — H^xtl • 
in battle. 

522. i^fTQ : sc. that Thetis had been with him. 

523. 'Hfni: emphatic as 519; here so placed in contrast with c/uiot. 

— IfMl luX^omii : shall he my care. For the subjv. with kc, cf 139 ; see 
§ 18 6. — cfS2. 

524. ct S a^c: see on 302. — KaTavc<io-o|&(u : shall nod with my head. 
Only here in the middle, see on 433. 

525. Tovro ktX. : this answers vrffUfyrk^ ktX. 514. 

526. Wk|m»p : surety, pledge. — 4|46v : neuter adj. as subst. (see on 539), 
lit. anything from me, i.e. a promise or purpose. This is explained by on 
ktX. — iroXivd-ypcTov : revocable, from dy/oeo) [otpco)] take. 

527. icaravcW«»: aorist subjunctive. 

528. 1): he spoke, see on 219. — 4irlvfvo-c: nodded thereto, ?kniiyi\t.'^ 
o^p6oa : vjith his hrows. Zeus was represented in works of sculpture with 
heavy, projecting brows. — For the dative, cf Ktf^KiK-Q 524. 

529. &|ikpp6o-uu xa^TAi- : cf. am brosiaequecomae Verg. Aen. i. 403. 

— iiripp^o-avTo : rolled down at the nod, fell down on both sides of his 
head. These locks are conceived as long and flowing. See on B 11. 

530. Kpdr^s: distinguished from Kparoi 509 by the accent and the 
length of the first syllable. — Cf. adnuit et totum nutu tremefecit 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



47 



Olympum Verg. Aen. ix. 106, x. 115. — Phidias embodied in his colossal 
chryselephantine statue of Zeus at Olympia, the expression of exalted 
peace and power which lies in 528-530. — Zeus's dread of Hera's re- 
proaches is in marked (and almost ludicrous) contrast to this majestic 
demeanor. 

531-611. Scene on Olympus. Quarrel between Zeus and Hera. 

531. SUrfia^cv \]^TfiAyri(rav] : for the form, cf. rjytpOtv 57, dvcorav 533. 

532. oXa okro : for the hiatus, see on 333. — Skro : 2d aorist without 
variable vowel, from aXXo/uuu, § 53. For a, see § 23 a. 

533. vp^s 8«|Mi: sc. iprj, a general word of motion, implied in aXro. 
Cf. r 327 ; see § 16 «. — The home of Zeus on the summit of Olympus 
was not far from the peak on which he had been visited by Thetis. — 
&vl<rrav: dv€<rTrf(ray. 

534. c{ cS4«»v: from their seats. Each god had his separate dwelling 
on Olympus, see 607 f ., and his special seat in the hall in which they 
gathered. cSos is strictly not 'seat' but place where the seat 
stands. — o-^ov ktK. : proleptic, with Svcirravt they rose and went to meet 
their father. Motion is implied in the connection, as below. — This mark 
of respect is noted both negatively and affirmatively. 

535. AvrCoi : predicate nom. after corav, cf. B 185. 

536. iirl 6p6vov : makes ivOa more definite. Cf. {nj/ov itrl ^/mJSols 486, 
in apposition with ctt' '^wcCpoio. — o*8i ktX. : i.e. nor did she fail to see. — 
l&Cv : * proleptic ' object, cf. B 409. See H. 878. — The poet has to inform 
his hearers whether the gods were acquainted with the fiovX'q of Zeus, 
and what their feelings were concerning it. 

537. tSovo-a : on seeing him, when she saw him. See on ifav 138. 

538. &f»Yvp6«ila : standing epithet of Thetis. The compound adjec- 
tive contains a comparison, " with feet white as silver." — dlXCoio T^povros : 
see on 358. 

539. aMKa : straightway. Without 8€, as 386 ; see § 15 cf. — KcproffcCom : 
neuter adj. as sabst., cf. ifiov 526, fjuetkixLOuri A 256. See on 54. 

540. tCs St] av OciSv : what one of the gods now, this time. This is uttered 
in a vexed tone ; cf 202. 

541. cUcC: contrasted with ovSc ri ttco, cf. 106 f. — idvra: naturally 
would agree with rot preceding, but is attracted to the usual case of the 
subject of the inf., the poet having the inf. construction already in mind. 

542. KpuirrdSia . . . SikoI^imv : consider and decide upon secret plans. 
Cf the words of Hera, iccii^ (Zeus) Skra a <l>pov€<av ivi Ovfju^ \ Tpwai re 
KM J^vaouri Bucaierto, <k iwuiKts ® 430 f . let him, considering these his own 
affairs in his mind, decide between the Trojans and the Danal, as is seemly. 

543. Tpd^pMv : see on 77. — rlrXnicat : hast had the heart. 



48 



COMMENTARY. 



544. iran^p jcrX. : see on 503. 

545. H : see on 131. — |&40ovs: thoughts, plans, as the content 
of speech. 

546. c(8^<rtiv: parallel form of ua€<rOai. — x*^*"^^ ktX.: sc. ciScvoi. 
The personal const, is used as 589, ptfCrcpoi irokefu^civ 170-av *A)(auK 2 258 
the Ackaeans were easier to fight with. See H. 944. 

547. ^v: sc. fivOov. — 4miKls: sc. — &koW|mv: with indefinite sub- 
ject, Tivd. — ^iriiTtt : therif since the relative protasis is hypothetical. 

550. Zeus, in his excitement, passes at once to apply his principle to 
the present situation, instead of giving to the apodosis a general form 
corresponding to the protasis. — ravra : refers to Hera's question, 540. — 
SKotrra : the details, exaggerated in his anger. — SuCpco ktX.. : for the 
use of two verbs, see § 12 d. 

551. Pottmt : ox-eyed ; i.e. with deep, dark, majestically quiet eyes. This 
epithet, like \cv#co>Xcvo9 55, is almost peculiar to Hera. 

552. ^Sov : predicate. Equiv. to ttoZos 6 fivOo^ coriv ov cci^re?. 
See H. 618, 1012 a. — This is a mere exclamation, and expects no 
answer. 

553. irdpos : else, at other times; with the present tense. " I have not 
been wont." — owTi kt\. : emphatic repetition. The idea is negatived in 
every form, cf. 550. 

554. wnr 4<MXD«r6a : for the conditional rel. sent., cf. 218, 230, 543. — 
wTo-a : a riva. — ^WX-Qo^a : for the ending, see § 44 a. 

555 ff . After the rather harsh reply of Zeus, Hera shows that she 
knew not only the person concerning whom she had asked (540) but also 
what Thetis had requested, and what Zeus had promised. 

555. vapcCiq) : should persuade, i.e. lest it prove true that she has per- 
suaded. Anxiety about a fact of the past, for which the aor. ind. might 
be used. 

556 = 538. — This is not spoken out of special animosity to Thetis, 
for whom in fact Hera had special affection. Hera claims Thetis as a 
sort of foster-child, rjv iyta oMj \ Op&j/a tc koll aTLTrjXa koI avSpi iropov 
irapoKoiTiv CI 59 f . whom I myself bred and cherished and gave as wife etc. 
According to a myth found in Pindar and Aeschylus, both Zeus and 
Poseidon strove together as rivals for the love of Thetis, but bestowed 
her upon Peleus on learning from Themis that this goddess of the sea was 
destined to bear a son mightier than the father. 

557. ticpCii : as 497. — o-oC -ye : emphasized in reference to cc 555. 

558. * Asyndeton,' since the following is only a more distinct state- 
ment of the preceding, 555 f . — ^t^tvimv : cf. 514, 526. — «as 'n^i^rtvi : that 
thou wilt honor. 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



49 



559. TifikV|0'cvs, oX^o-cif : coincident actions, in chiastic position. For the 
'chiasmus/ see § 16 a; for the < parataxis/ see § 21 A. 'Achilles was to 
be honored by the suffering of the Achaeans, who were to see how neces- 
sary he was to their success. — iroXiat [iroXXovs] : see § 38 c. — 'AxaiiSv : 
construe with vrfva-Cv (not voXw), as is indicated by the order of words, 
and by the freq. repetition of the phrase cttI v^^s *Ayajuujv<, 12, B 8, 17, 168. 

561. aUl ktX. : always art thou thinking. An echo of the oto) of 558, 
showing vexation ; cf, aid 107. — oilU o-e X^6« : " thou art always watch- 
ing me." 

562. ^ffcin|s ; in spite of cUlj nevertheless ; like ofuo?, which is found but 
once in Homer. — Airo OvfMG : far from my heart, affection. For this use of 
diro, cf B 162, 292, <^tX(ov Slvo Tn^fmra waxrxa a 49 suffers woes away from 
his friends. 

563. TO . . . lorrai : as 325. — xal j^C'yiov : sc, than what now causes her 
ill humor. 

564. ct 8^ ovTo> ktX.: the reply to 555 f. Sic volo, sic jubea — 
I^XXci : impersonal, cf B 116. 

565. &XX4 ktX. : the English idiom, sit quiet and obey," instead of 
the more usual Greek idiom kMjo-o weiOofihnj, see § 21 A. — &ic^ovo-a: 
aK€iair is generally indeclinable. 

566. ffc^ : threatening, as 28. — : closely connected with the verb. 
— XpalayMinv : ward off. 

567. ao-o-ov t^vra: him who comes near, implying injury or attack. The 
acc. follows ^(paia'fjLoxrtv on the analogy of xpomt/acq) tlvl ru — ^re . . . ^cUo 
[^^, cf ipciofjLey 62] : this explains aaa-ov lovra. — For the thought, cf 
588 ft. — xctpas 4<|mU* : cf xctpas inUaet, 89. 

56a C/. 33. 

569. imTirdfji^ao-a : cf B 14. For the hiatus before it, justified by the 
caesural pause, see § 27 6. 

570. &vd Stt|ia : cf dvot (rrpaTov 10, 53. — OipavCwvcs : like c?rovpdvuK, 
inhabitants of heaDen. See on B 491 ; § 39 a. 

571-600. Hephaestus reconciles his parents. 

571. ToCo-iv : as 68. — The amusing figure of Hephaestus as butler is 
introduced in order to give a more cheerful character to the assembly of 
the gods, after the quarrel. 

572. M. ^i^v : generally with a notion of hostility, as 89 ; but here 
with ^pa. 

573. rdSi : here. See H. 695 a. — &vcKrd : predicate ; from ay€x<a, cf. 
Mxrx€o 586. 

574. A U{i if m truth now, as 61. — IvcKa OviitAv : contemptuously 
spoken. 



50 



COMMENTARr. 



575. KoX^v 4XavvfTov: carry on a hrawly by wangling. Cf. B 212. 
— Sourdt: here first do we learn that the gods were feasting at this 
time. 

576. tA x<p<^vtt jcrX. : in such contrasts, the demonstrative and ad- 
jective have the force of a relative clause, cf. 106. The article strengthens 
the contrast. 

577. KoX tkin^ vip : vrith Homeric refinement, the speaker intimates 
that his counsel is not needed. 

578. avTc : ue, as often before. 

579. : const, with rapaiy . — liffctv : dative of disadvantage. 

580. ct vip : if only. — lO^^jo-iv ; the verb for emphasis here precedes 
its subject, see § 11 ifc; or 'OXv/i,?rcos ktX. can be taken as in apposition 
with the subject of iO^Xya-iv. — *OXi>|iirios ktX. : this indicates his exalted 
power, although in 609 this expression is used without special reference 
to the circumstances of the case. — dfrrf povip^s : for Zeus as god of the 
lightning and storm, see on B 146. 

581. It c8^v : see on 534. — The conclusion of the sentence is omitted 
(dTTOo-iown^is). " It will be the worse for us," or " he can,ybr," etc. See 
on 136. 

582. KoOdvTco^fu: always metaphorical, as here. Infinitive for the 
imperative, as 323. 

583. The preceding infinitive represents a condition, hence no con- 
junction is needed to connect the verses. Cf 303. — tXaos : cf tXaxro'd/ijtvoi 
100, 147. 

585. 4v xcipl tWci : placed in her hand ; generally used of presenting a 
cup of wine, cv x^pol rCOrffu is used of gifts or prizes, cf. 441. 

586. Avdorxfo : lit. hold thyself up, endure, he patient. 

587. : see on 28. — <^CXi|v irtp lovo-av : very dear as thou art, irtp 
strengthens, as 352 and freq. — Iv d^6aX|MC(riv : before my eyes, as F 306. 
C/. ri69; see § 12 g. 

589. y^paia-y^v : as 242. — dpYoXlos kt\. : personal const, as 546, dpya- 
Xcos yap T iarl 6w Pport} dvS/oi Ba/jL^vaL 8 397 " it is hard for a god to be 
overcome by a mortal man." 

591. iro86s : for the genitive, see on 323. — Tfra^Av : reduplicated 2d 
aor., see § 43 e. — dird Pi^Xov ktX. : from the mighty threshold of Olympus. 

592. irdv 8* r\}kCLp: cf. iravrffiipUK 472, 601. — ^p6|&i|v, Kdtnrfo-ov [xaTe 
wea-ov] : the impf . is used of the continuance of the motion, the aor. marks 
the conclusion of it, cf. B 94. — ^p6|&i|v : is freq. used of ships driven by 
the wind, and marks the motion as involuntary. — icaTa8vvn : the aor. 
partic. is here used (without reference to time as past, present, or future) 
of an act coincident with Kdmrco-ov* 



FIRST BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



51 



593. 4v A^ifikv^ : for the dative of rest after a verb of motion, cf, V 89 ; 
see H. 788 ; G. 1225, 2 — Hephaestus had his workshop on Olympus, 
but Lemnos was considered his island — a belief to which the volcanic 
mountain Mosychlus gave rise. — 6v|i6s: anima. — At another time, 
apparently when an infant, Hephaestus was cast out of heaven by his 
mother, and saved by Thetis (S 395 ff.). — C/I * Nor was his name 
unheard or unador'd | In ancient Greece ; and in Ausonian land | Men 
call'd him Mulciber ; and how he fell | From heaven they fabled, thrown 
by angry Jove | Sheer o'er the crystal battlements; from mom ] To noon 
he fell, from noon to dewy eve, | A summer's day ; and with the setting 
sun I Dropt from the zenith like a falling star | On Lemnos, the Aegean 
isle.' Milton Par, Lost i. 738 ff . 

594. SCvTVfs avSpcs : the earliest population of the island. To judge 
from their name they were marauding (o-lvo/icu) Felasgians who had 
emigrated from Thrace. — a^ap: construe with irco-ovra, cf, 349. — KOffct- 
o-avTo : took me up and cared for me. Cf, B 183, T 378. 

596. fUiS^o-oo-a : inceptive, smilingj repeats the preceding fuiSvfa'ty, — 
irai86s: ablatival gen., /row her son, depending on iBt^ro. Cf. kwcXXov 
eSc^aro 6X6xoio Q 305 received the cup from his wife. — x<*P^ • d**. of 
instrument with cSejfdro, cf Aa^cro xtpa-iv £ 365 took in his hands, 

597. IvS^ta: from left to right, through the company, according to 
established custom. To pass to the left would be an act of ill omen. 
See on 471. 

598. otvox^^ Wxrap : cf, ("HPrj) veKTap €<^yo;(dei A 3. The meaning 
of the first part of the compound was overlooked ; cf tmroi PovKoXiovro 
Y 221, diKoSofuiv TCixos, aedificare naves, * tin box,' * weekly journal.' 
— KpifTif pos : the red nectar of the gods, like the wine of men, was mixed 
with water before it was drunk. — d^vo-o-oiv : see on 471. 

599. oo-pcoTTos : hence the proverbial * Homeric laughter.' 

600. S^fiara : palace, hall. — The laughter arose because of the 
striking contrast between the puffing, hobbling Hephaestus as cup- 
bearer, and the graceful Hebe or Ganymed who usually performed the 
duties of that office. 

601. iffiop : acc. of duration of time. 
602 = 468. 

603. piv [ftiyv] : as 154, 163. — ^ppLyyos : cf pjokin^ r opxrjorv^ tc • 
TO, yap r dvajSi^fmra &uro9 a 152, song and dance, for these are the acconu 
paniments of the feast. 

604. &pfip6pfvai : The Muses sing alternately, one relieving the other, 
as the rhapsodes at the festivals. Cf incipe, Damoeta, tu deinde 
sequere, Menalca, | alternis dicetis; amant alterna Ca- 



52 



COMMENTARY. 



menae Verg. Eel, iii. 59, * Divinely warbled voice | -4nstt7mfi^ the 
stringed noise,' Milton Christmas Hymn 96 f. 

605. airdp: correlative with /ACF 601. 

606. KOKKcCorris : for the form as fut. of jcaraica/iai, see § 48 ^. — 
iKoirrot : in partitive apposition with ot, giving prominence to the indi- 
vidual, after the collective expression. Cf. B 775 and T 1 (where the 
plural is used). 

610. KOifiaTo: tocu wont to lie. — Sr€ ktX.: whenever etc. The cond. 
rel. sentence expresses indefinite frequency of past action. This iterative 
opt. is more freq. after the rel. pron. than with the conjunction. . 

611. KoOcfiSc: slept. — &v(&pds: of ascending a couch, only here and 
ofJLov A.c;(09 da-avaPatvoi 291. No special height of couch is to be 
infeiTed. — irapdS^: adv., beside him. — xpv<r69povos : in Homer, Apollo 
has a golden sword, Hera has golden sandals, Iris has golden wings, 
Hermes has a golden wand. See on 37. The throne was covered with 
thin plates of gold. 

' No book of Homer is so full of dramatic groups and situations as 
this : Apollo striding with his bow and ringing quiver ; Thetis caressing 
the grieving and angry Achilles ; Thetis before Zeus, clasping his knees 
and extending her right hand toward his chin ; Zeus with his dark brows 
and ambrosial locks nodding a confirmation to his promise ; Chryses with 
his filleted sceptre and his gifts, before the two sons of Atreus ; Odysseus 
at the altar of Apollo with the maiden whom he is restoring to her aged 
father, — -with his companions and the hecatomb; Achilles in his rage 
drawing his sword from its sheath, calmed by Athena, who takes him by 
his long locks, — with Agamemnon before him and the other chiefs 
around him; the heralds of Agamemnon at the tent of Achilles, as 
Patroclus leads forth the fair Brise'is ; Zeus and Hera on Olympus, with 
Hephaestus playing the part of Hebe ; the assembly of the gods, Apollo 
playing the lyre, and the singing Muses.' 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 

Zeus prepares to fulfil his promise to Thetis (A 509 f., 523) by sending 
a dream to Agamemnon. The intended battle, which is to be disastrous 
to the Achaeans, is delayed by a test of the disposition of the army ; the 
Greek and Trojan forces do not advance to meet each other until the close 
of the book (780, 809 f.). — The events narrated in B occupy the first 
part of the 22d day of the action of the Iliad. See §§ 7 5, 8. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



53 



1-86. The dream of Agamemnon (1-41) and the council of the chiefs. 

1. 80y refers to A 606-611. — Ocol ktX. : appositive with AXXm. 

2. iravW»xMi : see on A 424. — a*x [<^X*] • ^® sleep ; 
cf ov8c noo-a&Mwa ye\a>9 cxc ^ 344 but Poseidon did not laugh." 

3. ^plva MS : hiatus allowed at the ' bucolic diaeresis,' see § 27 — ms : 
howy sc. in accordance with his promise to Thetis. 

4. Tifi^o^ ktX.: see on A 559. * Deliberative subjunctive' after a 
secondary tense in the principal clause. The direct question would be 
ink TiiJLri<Tia. — For the < chiasmus,' see § 16 a. 

5. ifSc: this. The subject is attracted to the gender of Povkrjy the 
predicate, cf. 73, A 239. 

6 irl|&^(u ktX. : in apposition with ^8€, cf. ro /icv ov8c voi^crev | fn/pov 
iitpwrai hopfv E 665 f. hut he did not think of this — to draw the spear out of 
his thigh. — ovXov ovctpov: a baneful dream; a deceptive, illusory vision, 
instead of a kindly dream of warning. Cf. (Zcvs) ifairarf rov 'Ayoft^- 
vova oveipov riva ^cvSQ ciriircfi^c, «Ss iraXXot rwv 'A;(au«t>v amOayoiev Lucian 
Jup. trag. 40. On the deceitful measures of Zeus, cf. A 64 ff., where Zeus 
sends Athena to the Trojan army in order to incite an archer to wound 
Menelaus, and break a truce. — Homer elsewhere knows of no dream 
gods but only individual dreams ; cf. A 63. Not all dreams were thought 
to be significant. 

7 = A 201. — For the two aces., one of the person (direct object) and 
the other of the thing (cognate acc.), cf. 22, 59, 156, A 201. 

8. pdo-K* C6i: up and go, a formula used by Zeus in addressing his 
messengers. Cf vade age, nate, voca Zephyros Verg. Aen. iv. 223. 
For the asyndeton, cf. A 99, 363. — ovXc : sc. for the Achaeans. 

10. fftdXa : construe with iravm. — &-yopcW|Mv : as imperative, cf A 582. 

11. idXcvc : note the lack of connectives. — xdfni K0|&6«»vra« : a frequent 
epithet of the Achaeans. Among them to cut the hair was a sign of 
mourning. Achilles's hair which he cuts off at the funeral pile of Patro- 
clus is called rrjXtOoiaaa ^ 142, luxuriant, and Athena attracts his attention 
by laying hold of his locks, A 197. Paris is proud of his hair, T 55. Apollo 
is oKtfKrtKoiLrfi Y 39 (Milton's * unshorn Apollo'). On archaic works of 
art the men are always represented with long hair. See on 872. The 
Euboean Abantes are ^iBev KOfi6<avT€9 542; i.e. their back hair only 
was long, their front hair was 'banged' (of course, no Chinese <cue' 
is to be thought of in their case). The Thracians are oKpoKOfun 
A 533, with their hair bound in a knot on top of the head; cf. apud 
Suevos, usque ad canitiem, horrentem capillum retro se- 
quuntur, ac saepe in ipso solo vertice religant Tac. Germ.d8 
Thucydides (i. 6) says it was not long since the ' gentlemen of the old 



54 



COMMENTARY. 



school^ had given ap wearing their hair in a knot fastened by a golden 
cicada. The Spartans retained to a late period the custom of wearing 
long hair. Before the battle of Thermopylae, the Persian scout saw 
the Spartans combing their hair (Hdt. vii. 208), preparing for glorious 
victory or honorable death. Among the Hebrews, the long hair of Absa- 
lom is familiar to us. In the later classical period, fashions changed. 
Only dandies wore long hair at Athens in the time of Aristophanes ; and 
in the post-classical period St. Paul could write to the Corinthians : ovSk 
^ <^ixris avr^ St8dxrK€i vfJLos ori d.vrfp fuv cav KOfjuf, dri/iea avr<p itrriv 1 Car. 
xi. 14. 

12. vOv ktX. : transition to the direct construction. See on A 401. — 
vdXiv TfM&ttv : not as A 164. 

13. &|i^Vf ^pd^ovrai : think two ways^ i,e, are divided in mind, sc. about 
the destruction of Troy. For the o- of dfi<^9, see § 30 L — 'OX<i|iiria ktX. : 
cf. 484, A 18. 

14. Myya^^ : cf, A 569. This statement is intended only for Aga- 
menmon, not for the Dream. 

15. l^vTOi : are fastened upon ; impend, 

16. £pa : so, ue, as he had been directed. 

17. Cf A 12. 

19. dfuppdo-ios : used like afiPporo^, vtKrdpco^, and Otioi, of everything 
attractive and refreshing that comes from the gods. Only here, of sleep. 
— kIxvto : had poured itself out, like an enveloping cloud, cf. 41. 

20. Mp Kf^aXljs : every Homeric dream appears above the head and 
takes a familiar form. Cf (Iris) devolat, et supra caput astitit 
Verg. Aen. iv. 702. — Ni|Xi|C^ vb : to the son of Neleus. The adj. is equiv. 
to a genitive, cf, 54, 416, 465, 528, 604, V 180. — The Dream took this 
form in order not to terrify the king, and to persuade him most readily. 

21. r6v j^a: whom, you know. — 'ycp6vT«»v: the nobles without regard 
to age formed a PovXtj (see 53). Cf. the Spartan ycpovo-ca, sen at us, 
aldermen. So *the elders of Moab' (Numbers xxii. 7) are identical 
with *the princes of Moab* (Numbers xxii. 8, 21). Cf. htipjoyipovrvs 
V 149. 

22. For the order of words, cf V 386. — yiy : const, with TrpwT€<f>iav€€, 
cf 795, r 389. 

23. cvScis ktX. : a reproach, for which the reason is given by a com- 
monplace remark, 24. Cf uate dea, potes hoc sub casu ducere 
somnos? Verg. Aen. iv. 560. — Sat^povos: fiery-hearted. — linro8d|iOio : 
lit. master of horses, i.e. knight. Horse-tamer gives a false tone in English. 

26. ffiv99 : give ear, from (wtrjfu. The change from the character of 
Nestor to that of a messenger from Zeus, is suited to the nature of^a 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



55 



dream. — Ams S4 : < paratactic/ instead of a causal clause, cf, A 200. — 
Tot : for ikeey " you may know." Ethical dative. 

27. u%vx depends on avev^cv, while the object of the verbs is easily 
supplied. Cf. A 196. — The care and sympathy of Zeus are motives to 
prompt Agamemnon to a speedy execution of the command. 

28-32 = 11-15, with slight change. 

33. Ik Ai6s : with the passive, in the sense of vtto Aio$, indicating Zeus 
as the source of the woe. Cf, <f>tXiffi€v ck Aios 668 f . they tcere loved by Zeus, 
— Ifx< • ^f^d f^^y followed by a negative form of the same command, cf, 
A 363. 

34. &WjD : cf 2, and Moore's * When slumber's chain hath bound me.* 

— For the form, see § 52 c. 

35. C/. A428. 

36. &vd 6v|&6v: through his heart, Kara Svfiov is more freq., as A 136, 
193; cf ova (rrparov and jcara (rrparov. See on A 10. — "as you 
know." — I|mXXov: were not about to be, were not fated to be. The plural 
verb is often used in Homer with a neuter subject, cf 135, 465 ; see § 19 A. 

37. : i,e, thought^ imagined, cf T 28. For the accent, cf firj A 34. 

— ^ 'yc : emphasized in contrast with Zcv? 38. — Tiffcaxi ki Cvip : emphatic, 
on that very day. 

38. Wjtnos : blind fool, infatuated, an appositive exclamation. A stand- 
ing predicate of those who thoughtlessly and fearlessly enter on a course 
which ends in their ruin. Cf, 873. It is explained by the following 
clause, c/l 112 ; see § 11 y. Cf Vergil's demensi qui nimbos et 
non imitabile fulmen . . . simularet Aen. vi. 590 f. — at- 
tracted into the relative clause. 

39. O^o-civ Ivi : see on A 509. — 'yap : for the quantity, see on A 342. — 
^Ti : i.e, before the capture of Troy. 

40. Tptto-C Tc ktX. : emphasizes the consequences of the PovXtj Atos, 
disastrous alike to both armies. — Ua v<r)iCvas : through the conflicts, " in 
the course of the battles." 

41. d|i4^vTo : surrounded him, " rang in his ears," i,e, he remembered 
it well. Cf 19. &fi<f>i seems to be used with reference to both ears. — 
o|i^ : the voice of the Dream. 

42. lt<To : the heroes seem to have put on their tunics while sitting on 
the couch. — cvSwi ktX, : the Homeric heroes had no special night gear, 
but slept naked (or at least without their outer garments), like the 
Eskimos and lower-class Italians of to-day, and like the English of the 
Middle Ages. — Epic simplicity describes the most trifling acts ; see § 11 c. 

43. KoX^v ktX, : where a noun is accompanied by three or more 
epithets, often two stand at the beginning of the verse, as here. — ^apos : 



56 



COMMENTARY. 



this upper garment was put on when no armor was worn. The skin of 
some wild beast was sometimes worn in its stead, c/*. T 17. The Homeric 
hero generally carried a lance, even on a peaceful journey, but Agamem- 
non here takes his sword since he could not carry conveniently both lance 
and o-K^irrpoF. The sword was little used in combat, but often worn. — 
For this description of Agamemnon's dress, see § 11 (/. 

44. woavl : for the form, see § 30 a,/. 

45. &|a4^ pAXtTo : the sword hung not from a belt, but from a strap 
which passed over one shoulder. — apa : farther, cf, 546, 615. — df»Yvpdi|Xov : 
the hilt is studded with silver nails, as a decoration, cf. A 219, 246. 

46. o^iTov aU( : ever imperishable, as the work of Hephaestus, and as 
ever in the possession of the same family, cf, 101 ff. It was a symbol of 
their unending rule. 

47. Kara v1)as: cf. Kara Xaov 179, Kara arparov A 318, irapa vrjas A 
347. Le. to the dyopi^ which was at the middle of the camp, see on 
A 54. — 'AxcuAv xaXxoxvr^vmv : used as genitive of ev#cvi7/!u8e$ 'Axoioc 
331. 

48. vpoo^p^crcTo jcrX. : t.€. illuminated the mountain of the gods on 
whose summit the first beams of light fell. Cf. *H(tf$ ck Xcxccov irap 
dyavov TiOunvoio \ <apwff, Iv aOava.rQun ^(i>s <^^xm 1786 Pporounv A 1 f . 
Dawn arose from her couch, from the side of the illustrious Tithonus, in order 
to bring light to immortals and to mortals. 

49. ^6m [^oos, ^<!>9]: for the form, c/I ^ooxrSe 309. — Ip^ovca: to 
herald; cf Acrrrfp ... 09 re pAXurra tp^rai dyycAAoiv ^aos '^ovs v 93 f. 
the star which comes as the herald of the morning light. 

50. i : i.e. Agamemnon. 
53-86. The Council. 

53. povXijv 'ycp6vT«v: council of the chiefs elders,' see on 21) who 
discussed important questions before presenting them to the popular 
assembly. Allusions to this council are found in 143, 194. Who consti- 
tuted it, is not clear ; probably not many, perhaps only six besides the 
Atridae, cf 404 ff. — ya^vM^mv : in pi. elsewhere only as an epithet of 
peoples, as A 123. — t^c : caused to hold a session, called a council. 

54. Pao-iX^os: in appos. with Nccrtopos, which is implied in 'Scorroperf. 
See on 20. 

55. irvKiviiv ktX. : prepared (^formed) the prudent plan, which he after- 
wards unfolds. 

56. Mwwv: cognate ace, adverbial. It is equiv. to iv vm^. Cf 
i<l>€€rTioi 125, IvapiOpMi 202, imxBoviM A 272. See H. 588. 

57. &|&Ppoo-Ct|v : see on 19. A standing epithet of night as a gift of 
the gods for the refreshment of man's nature, with special reference to 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



57 



sleep. Cf, Kol vnyov Biapoy IXovro H 482 took the gift of sleep, — itdXiow : 
strengthens Scfx^rra^ cf, 220. 

58. ctSos ktX. : see on A 115. — &f%yrrfL\ nearest ^ i.e. most exactly, 
marks the degree of resemblance. — 4^KCiv : for the final v, see on 
A 221. 

59. Cf. 20, — |iv6ov : for the two accusatives, see on 7. 

60-70 = 23-33. Epic poetry prefers these verbal repetitions to the use 
of * indirect disiSourse,' see § 11 6. 

71. ifx*^* &vo«Td|Mvos : flew away. See on A 391. — dvi|Kcv : as 34. Cf, 
nox Aeneam somnusque reliquit Verg. -4en. viii. 67. 

72. AXX* a^iTf : see on A 62. — at kcv #ctX. : see on A 66. 

73. vfifWjo-oi&ai : will put them to the test, Agamenmon wished to be 
assured that the army was still ready for the fray. It had become demor- 
alized by the length of the war, by the pestilence, and by the quarrel and 
the withdrawal from service of Achilles. — Bfyxi Irrlv: i,e. as the gen- 
eral has the right, ^e/us is properly what has been laid down, right sanc- 
tioned by custom and the law of nature. It is often used in Homer like 
BiKiff, Kara pjoipav. The relative is attracted to the gender of the predi- 
cate, as 5. 

74. KaC : introduces a more definite statement of ireipi^aofuu, cf. 114, 
132, 251. — ^'yciv kt\, : this proposition is intended to touch their sense 
of honor and rouse anew their martial zeal, vlas 'A;(awi>v is supplied 
from 72 as the subject of <^evy€iv and the object of the following ifnjrveiv 

— o^vvTiwr£: c/ A 170, 179. 

75. £XXoOcv aXXos: aliunde alius, from different sides, each from his 
own place. — Ipi^riif iv : seek to restrain from flight. 

76 = A 68. — Agamenmon had risen to speak at 55, though this act is 
not mentioned as usual. 

77. i{|ia06cvTos : here as an adj. of two endings, cf 503 and note, 570, 
695, 742 ; see § 38 a. This use of adjs. in -€i$, as of two endings, is con- 
fined to geographical names ; and the gender may have been different in 
the poet's age and dialect. 

78. See on A 73. 

79. Conventional form of address to the princes. The corresponding 
address to the warriors is o! <^iXoi ly/ococc Aamoi, Oepairovres "hpqoq 110. 

— |iiSovTcs : rulers, cf, '^hvfitv fuSiojv T 320 and the proper name MiBovau 
{Medusa), equiv. to KpeCovau (Creusa), 

81. i|rcv86t KCV ^aSfuv : sc, cTvai, we might say (potential) that it (i.e. what 
the Dream promised) was a deceit, cf. 349. — xal voo-^iloC|M6a : and might 
turn away, i.e. be on our guard against the Dream's questionable counsel 
to try a decisive battle at this time when the mightiest of the Achaeans 



58 



COMMENTARY. 



held aloof from the fight. — iioXXov : <dl the more^ sc. since they could put 
no real confidence in the Dream's message. 

82. irvv S4 : see on A 354. — opunros kt\. : as A 91 ; c/. 197. 

83 = 72. — The answer of the generally loquacious Nestor is remarka- 
bly brief. He gives courteous assent in the very words of the king, with- 
out saying a word about the proposition. 

85. I » a i4ii rnuttv: thereupon (i,e. likewise) rose, — «iC0ovto: ue. they 
made no objection, but prepared to go to the popular assembly. — irotfUvi 
kamv : Agamemnon, as 243. 

86. o m p i Toirxot : see on A 15. 

87-154. Assembly of the people, Agamemnon's speech and its effect. 

87. rjfrn : introduces a detailed comparison, as 455, P 3. See § 14. — 
I9yia : swarms. The following hiatus is prob. * weak,' § 27 d. — cto-i : 
retains its force as a present, esp. in comparisons, c/I F 61. See § 48 g, 
— fuXiov^v : i.e. wild bees which live in hoUow trees and in holes in the 
rock. — For the comparison of bees c/*. ac veluti in pratis ubi apes 
aestate serena | floribus insidunt variis, et Candida cir- 
cum I lilia funduntur ; strepit omnis murmure campus 
Verg. Aen. vi. 707 ff. ; 'as bees | In spring-time when the sun vrith 
Taurus rides, | Pour forth their populous youth about the hive | In clus- 
ters ; they among fresh dews and flowers | Fly to and fro ... So thick 
the airy crowd swarm'd,' Milton Par. Lost i. 768 ff. 

88. alii Wor: ever anew. Cf. illae (bees) continuo saltus 
silvasque peragrant Verg. Georg. iv. 53. 

89. PoTpw86v: in clusters, like bunches of grapes. Cf. lentis uvam 
demittere ramis Verg. Georg. iv. 558. — he Mtnxv. to the flowers. 

90. Iv6a oXit: for the hiatus, see §§ 27 /, 32 a. — mvoT^arat: from 
werofjuaif have taken to flight, ^re in flight, 

. 91. «Ss : the point of comparison lies in the coming forth and approach 
in separate crowds (swarms), ^orpvioy 89 and IXa^ 93 have the same 
position in the verse. 

92. vpovdpoiOc : before, i.e. along, — paOcCi|s : deep bayed, extended. For 
the form, see § 38 6. 

93. 60-0-0, : rumor, whose source is unknown, and which is therefore 
ascribed to the gods (Aios ^yycXos). — ScS^ctv : had blazed forth as a fire. 

94. oT^^vovo-' Uveu : they conjectured that Agamenmon would propose 
some important measure. — i,yipovTo : they came together. The aorist after 
the descriptive imperfects marks the conclusion of the movement. Cf, 
99, A 592, P 78. 

95. TCTp4x<^* f^^d in confusion, was in commotion, — vird : adv., 
beneath. 



SECOND BOOK OP THE ILIAD. 



59 



96. Xcufv l{4vr«»v : gen. abs., although it may be affected by inro. See 
^19 dp. 

97. kpffyrvov: impf. of 'attempted action.' "They were trying to 
restrain them." — cl w6t€ ktA.. : a wish, on the part of the heralds. "If 
ever they would stop their clamor." — dimfs: ablatival genitive with 
iTxplaroy cf, 275. 

98. o^oCaro : might cease from, as F 84, c/I 275. — Storpc^^v : as A 176. 

99. (nrov8^: with difficulty ^ scarcely, — lfW|Tv6cv: for the aorist, see on 
94; for the plural with the collective Aaog, cf, 278. — Ka9* ISpas: along 
the rows of seats, on the seats, as 211. For the use of Kara, cf. 47, F 326. 

100. dvd : adverbial with iarrf. Cf ayi(rrrj 76. 

101. TO |iiv : this, as A 234. — Kd|u rv^x^v : tvrought with toil. The prin- 
cipal idea is in the participle, as A 168 and freq. See § 21 1. 

102 ff. Smkc : for the repetition, see on A 436. 

104. 'Ep|uCa« icrX.: Hermes, the messenger of the gods, bore the 
fnaprrpoy from Zeus to Pelops, as a symbol of empire. The kingdom 
descended with the sceptre. 

105. o aun : for the hiatus, see on A 333. — n^i|r : in apposition with 
6, see § 42 h. 

106. OW|«rK«»v IXmv: cf moriens dat habere nepoti Verg. Aen. 
ix. 362. 

107. ^vkrrn, : ^ifrrrj^, for the form, see § 34 6. Thyestes was brother 
of Atreus. Homer evidently does not know the (later) story of the 
mutual hatred of the brothers that was the subject of tragedies by Sopho- 
cles and Euripides. The feud became proverbial as a chapter of unri- 
valled horrors. — Xctw ^pfjvoi: for the inf., cf dm(r<retv below. — 
^pfjvoi : for the form, see § 47 h. 

108. voXX^o-i, vavrC : according to the poet's view of the situation at 
the time of the Trojan war, cf A 78 f., the Pelopidae seem to have had 
the hegemony in Peloponnesus. Agamemnon ruled over Achaea, Corinth, 
Sicyon, and part of Argolis, see 569 ff. — "Ap^ct: local, cf iv^ApyeX A 30. 
— Mlo-o-hv : to rule over them. For the inf., cf fiaix€<T$ca A 8, dyeiv A 338. 

109. Tip : local, cf ^fiounv A 45. — Ipc i<rd|uvos : not an attributive 
partic. with 5 yc, but a predicate partic. of manner. Cf KOLpavitay 207. 

110. See on 79. — OcpdirovTcs 'Api|os: see on A 176. Cf ofos "Aprfo^ 
540. 

For this feigned exhortation, cf the speeches of Clearchus and his 
cyjccXeiHTTOft, Xen. An. i. 3. 9 f . Agamemnon does not desire his argu- 
ments to be convincing. He reminds his men covertly of the promise 
of Zeus that they should capture Troy, and that nine years of the ten 
are already past ; he calls that man dva-Kkia who returns to Argos with 



60 



COMMENTARY. 



his end nnattidned, esp. since they had already remained so long be- 
fore Ilios; he exaggerates the disparity of numbers of Achaeans and 
Trojans. 

111. ifcfya IW8i)<rc : fast entangled. Agamemnon in testing the temper 
of his army complains of his infatuation only as a pretence ; in 114 he 
utters unconsciously the unpleasant truth, while in the Ninth Book he 
uses the same words in bitter earnest. 

112. vxIrXiot: terrible, cruel god. See on 38. — Maxero ktX. : see 
on A 514. 

113. Uiripa-avTa: for the acc., c/I A 541. The participle here contains 
the leading thought; they were to sack Troy before their return. Cf, 
101. — dirovlc<r9(u : always stands at the close of the verse, with length- 
ened initial syllable (§ 59 e). 

114. vvv icrA.: "but now I see that he planned" etc. — dirdniv: the 
poet's hearer thought esp. of the deceitful Dream, but this was not in 
Agamemnon's mind here. — xaC : introduces a specification of the general 
statement, as 74. — kcXc^ci : the speaker infers this direction from their 
lack of success. 

115. StNTicX^a: emphatic position. The hiatus may be explained as 
*weak' (§ 27 d), a losing half its quantity. — iroXvv ktX.: sc, in battle 
and in the plague. 

116. fiiXXci : ts about to he, doubtless is, cf. A 564. 

117. 8^ : '^Svj, as 134 f . — KaWXvo-c Kdpfi|va : overthrew the heads, i.e. the 
citadels. Cf. Kafyrjvtav A 44. 

118. in Kal: hereafter also, cf A 96. — to« ktX.: cf rerum cui 
prima potestas Verg. Aen. x. 100. 

119. 7dp : refers to Svo-icXea 115. — t68c 7c : "if anything is a disgrace, 
this is." — Kal ktK. : even for future generations to learn. 

120. TOidvSc TO(r6v8c : so brave and so many as we here, cf. 799, qua lis 
quant us que Verg. Aen. iii. 641. 

121. airpfi|Krov: predicate. lAt. unaccomplished, toithout result, fruitless, 
cf 452. — v6\i|Mv: cognate accusative. 

122. travpoWftoto-i : cf. TpS>€^ av^ iripitiOev ava tttoXiv wtXCI^ovto | 
iravpoTcpoL, fiifjuourav 3e koll (Ss va-fuvi fiAx^adaJL \ ')(p€UA, dyayKoCrf, irpo rc 
jra&iiiv koi irpo ywaiKwv © 55 ff., but the Trojans armed themselves through- 
out the city; fewer in number, but even thus they were eager to fight, of stern 
necessity, for their children and their wives. — WXos ktX. : no end has yet 
appeared. A fuller expression for airfnftcroy, instead of " without attain- 
ing our end," " without gaining decisive victory." 

123. ct ircp 7dp ktX. : in case we should wish. A concessive clause with 
potential optative and icc, of what is conditionally conceivable. — The 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



61 



thought is completed in 127, " if we should take only one Trojan as cup* 
bearer for a squad of Achaeans." — y6.p : refers to Travporipoun. 

124. opKia rofi^vrfs: opKWv is strictly what belongs to the opKoq (cf, 
Icrrla A 480), thus the victim slain to confirm a solemn oath. The victim's 
throat was cut (F 292), hence opKca rapuuv was to make a solemn treaty, 
likefoedus icere, ferire foedus. Cf. r73, 94, 105, A 155. — fiji+w: 
dual with reference to the two nations. 

125. TpAcs |iiv: sc. K iO^Xoiev. — X^£ao^ai: collect themselves. — 1^- 
ornoi icrX.: equiv. to ot vcuovo-i Kara tttoKlv 130. — o<r<roi: the relative 
pronoun follows the emphatic word, as A 32. 

126. Suucocr|iT|6ct|uv : should be divided and arranged, cf. disponere. 
For the transition to the finite construction, see on A 401. For K€Hrp.€<a 
of marshalling troops, instead of the Attic rda-a-u} (§ 17), cf. 476, 554, T 1. 

127. avSpa: cf. 198. — iKoirroi: i.e. each squad of ten; in apposition 
with *A)(auoL The plural is used because of the number in each com- 
pany, cf r 1. 

128. ScvoCaro : Attic Scoivro (Scoiev), see § 44 

129. T6o-<rov vkicus : according to (d 562 f ., there were 50,000 Trojans 
and allies. For the numbers of the Achaeans, see on 494 ff. 

130. MKovpot: pred., as allies. Observe the strong contrast with 

Tp<ii)«DV. 

131. iroXX4«»v Ik voXCmv : construe with avBpe^. For the similarity of 
sound of the two words (* parechesis '), see § 13 a. — Ivcto-iv: are therein, 
cf 803. 

132. vXdlovo-i : drive me far away, i.e. hinder my attaining my 
end. Cf. A 59. For the adverbial use of fieya, see on A 78. — o^k cUmti : 
do not allow, i.e. prevent. — lO^vra: concessive, in spite of my desire. 

134. fUp&an: already have past. — Atos IviavroC: see on A109 146. 

135. Soiipa : timbers. For the form, see § 23 rf. — <nrdpTa : ropes, cables, 
of reeds or rushes. The ship's ropes were of oxhide ; a ship's cable at 
the home of Odysseus, was made of papyrus. — X^wrai : plural verb with 
neuter subject, as 36, although Sovpa a-iirrprc has preceded. 

136. al hi: but those others, explained by aXoxoi ktX. — ri : correlative 
with KoI, in free position, since rip.mpax aXoxoi are closely connected in 
thought with vrpruL T€Kva. 

137. ctaroi [^vrcu] ntn'tS^^iuvai : see on A 134. For the form etarai, 
see § 44 I. — mn'iSfyiuvai : fem. to agree with 0X0^01, who were more 
prominent before their minds than reicvou 

138. avTois : Attic (oaravrcus, in the same way as before, i.e. simply, wholly 
(with oKpdavTov). See § 42 — dKpdavrov : verbal adjective. Cf. Kpr^rp^ 
A 41, €ir€Kpalaiv€ 419. 



62 



COMMENTARY. 



139. ctiTM : for the subjunctive, see A 137o 

140. ^i>7«i>|uv : c/. 74. 

141. in : belongs to the idea of expectation implied in the future. 
" We can no longer hope," " to capture Troy is no longer a possibility." — 
fipvdTViav : nine times an epithet of Troy. 

142. roCo-i : dative of interest, see § 19 6. — This undesired impulse 
was called forth by the longing for home awakened by 134 ff. 

143. vcMTi lurd irXT|0^ : in apposition with TOL<n, in contrast with the 
yipovTc^ who had been present at the council. The dative with /Liera 
would be regular. — trXi|6^v: 'Hhe rank and file of the army," cf. 278, 
488. 

144. Kiv^Oq : cf. 95. — ^ : as, an obsolescent particle, distinguished 
by its accent from ifnj [c^]. — id>|u&ra i&oicpd : long-stretching billows^ cf, 
longi f luctus Verg. Georg, iii. 200. 

145. vdvTov 'IxapCoio : in apposition with BaXdxrari^, as the part with 
the whole, cf a-Kon-tXta 396 ; see § 12 /. The ttwtos is a particular tract 
of the OaXaxTfra (see on A 350). The Icarian high sea received its name 
from Icaria, a small island oft Samos ; it was notorious for its frequent 
storms. — TO. |iiv : cf 101, A 234. — £vp6s rt K6tos t€ : thought of as 
united, as is shown by iiratia^. **A southeast wind." A single wind 
never raises a storm in Homer. Cf ^ avc/ioi Svb ttovtov opiverov 
l)(0v6cvTa I Bop/o^s Kcl Zc^v/oos, T<o TC ©pyKrjOfv arjfrov I 4 f . two toinds 
rouse the fishy sea, Boreas and ZephyruSy which blow from Thrace, 

146. Mpopf : gnomic aorist, f req. in comparisons, § 14 f . For the form, 
see § 43/; distinguished from 6p<ap€v 797 (§ 49 /). — Ivatfas: rushing 
uponit. Cf (venti) incubuere mari . . . una Eurusque Notus- 
que ruunt Verg. Aen, i. 84. — Ai<s: he is v€<l>€\r/y€pera A 511. Zeus 
sends rain, thunder and lightning, wind and storm, snow, hail, meteors, 
and the rainbow. Cf Aio? iviavroC 134. 

147. Z^^vpos : this was a cold and stormy wind to the people of Aeolis 
and Ionia, for it came over the mountains of Thrace. It is called dvaa'qs 
fierce-blowing, and KcXaicivo^ loud-roaring. It is never a gentle * zephyr * 
in Homer, unless perhaps in the fairy-land Phaeacia and in Elysium. — 
PaOii : lit. deep, i,e. high. — M^v : see on itov A 138. 

148. XdPpos hraiy(l<av : violently dashing upon it. Xaj8/oo9 is pred., see 
§ 56 a. — M T€ : and thereupon^ i.e. as Zephyrus descends. — lifivct: sc. 
Xrfiov, an independent addition to the picture, without direct relation to 
the comparison, cf 210 ; see § 14 a. The construction of the dependent 
sentence is abandoned. — Cf * With ported spears, as thick as when a 
field I Of Ceres ripe for harvest waving bends | Her bearded grove of 
ears, which way the wind | Sways them.' Milton Par. Lost iv. 980 ff. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



63 



149. mr A^opij KiW|Oi|: a return to 144. — Both comparisons are 
meant to depict the whole scene. The first (144-146) describes the sud- 
den confusion with which the assembly dispersed; the second (147-149), 
the uninterrupted rush in one direction, toward the ships. — &\aXi|rip: 
dative of manner, in which sense a participle is often used. 

150. v4ja« : i,c, hn v^9, § 55 c p, — lo-o-t^ovro, IcrmTo, idXcvov ktX. : 
descriptive imperfects, much like the historical present (which is not 
Homeric). — iroSov 8' MvipOc : from under their feet, 

151. Xirrar &cipo|iivi| : lit. was placing itself as it arose, 

152. cXk^^v ktX, : cf, ipwra-ofiev ktX. A 141. 

153. oipovs: the trenches, the later 0X1C04, by which the ships were 
drawn from the sea upon the land, and from the land into the sea, cf A 
308. — ^KdOoipov: some had not been used for a long time and had 
become filled with sand. 

154. U|jiv«»v : subjective genitive with dvn;, not genitive absolute. See 
§ 19 d, — viro 8* f pcov : they took out from under. This is the opposite of 
A 486. 

155-210. Interference of Athena, Odysseus brings the people hack to the 
agora. 

155. The leaders were so dazed by the sudden and disorderly break- 
ing up of the assembly and by the rush to the boats of the shouting mass 
of men, that they were unable to follow the plan of Agamemnon. The 
intervention of a friendly god became necessary in order to cut the knot 
of difficulty. 

156 f. C/. A195. 

158. ovr«» 81] ktX. : thus as it seems, etc. An expression of vexation or 
surprise, in interrogative form. 

159. 'A|ryctoi : emphatic. — cip4a vAra ktX. : over the broad back of 
the sea. When the waves are at rest the monstrous mass seems to be the 
top of an arch. — tvpta : €vpvv. 

160. KoS 8^ ktX. : virtually a conclusion to the cond. implied in 158 f . 
" If they should thus flee, then they would " etc. — : for the * apocope,' 
see § 29 a, 6. — c^x^M^ : predicate with 'EXetrqv, as a triumph, a boast. 
For the construction, cf T 50. 

161. *A|rycCi|v : standing epithet of Helen. The word here has consid- 
erable emphasis, placed at the head of the verse like 'Apycux above. 

162. TpoCti (sc. yg) : the Troad, as 237, T 74. — dW : far from, cf. A 
562. 

164. o^ts d^avo^ ktX. : with thy winning words. For the short form of 
the dative, see § 35 d. — For the asyndeton, cf 10. — Ip^rvc : cf 75. 

165. ia : sc. 'Axoiovs, from the preceding verses. 



64 



COMMENTARY. 



166. oM' &«(ei|<rc : c/. A 220. 

167. Cf. A 44. — &£(ao-a: starting up, « with a rush." 
168 = 17. 

169. ^irctra: thereupon, — 'OSvo^a: Odysseus was the special favorite 
of Athena whose care alone secured his return to his home after his long 
wanderings. 

170. cvTc«rra [carSra] : Odysseus was not carried along by the rout, 
and the agora was nearest his own ships (see on A 54). — |uXa(vY|s : cf. A 
300. The ships of Odysseus are called fukrowdpfrfoi (vermilionrcheeked) 
637. 

171. Odysseus with this feeling was the right man for Athena's work. 
— |iCv : < limit of motion/ with ixavcv. — Kpa8Ci|v : accusative of the part, 
in apposition with /uv, cf. A 362. 

172. vpoo^^ : sc. fuv> 

173. This verse is found 7 times in the Iliad, 15 times in the Odyssey. 
It is ihe only conventional verse in which no caesura occurs in the 3d 
foot (§ 58 c). — SurycWs : Arceisias, father of Laertes and grandfather of 
Odysseus, was son of Zeus, acc. to a later myth. But this epithet is 
applied in a general way to princes. See on A 176. 

174-181. Cf 158-165. 

175. 4v vV|c<r«ri wo^vrfs: marking the disorderly flight. This is a 
standing combination of expressions for motion and rest, cf ifipdXXm, 
evTiOrffu. Cf 244, A 245, 593, T 89. 

179. |iT|8^ r Ip^cv : and draw not hack, do not rest. 

181. vT|a« : for the length of the last syllable, see § 59 /. 

182. ^iiu: object of (werfKCt while OeS.^ is a limiting genitive. 

183. Pr| U 9hiv: he set out to run, cf A 34. — dtr^ kt\. : sc. in his 
haste, since it hindered him in running. 

184. Eipvpdnis : described (r 244-248) as slightly older than Odys- 
seus himself, with round shoulders, dark complexion, and curly hair. 
Agamemnon has a herald of the same name, A 320. — The herald here, as 
usual, serves as the prince's personal attendant. 

185. dvrCos : for the construction, cf A 535. 

186 f. Cf 45 f. — S^ard ol : lit. took for him, received from him, as a 
sign that he acted in the name and with the authority of Agamemnon. 
trarpi&iov : see 103 ff. 

188. Sv Tvva |iiv : correlative with Sv S* av 198. — Pao^Xfja ictX. : prince 
or noble who had not been present at the council of the * Gerontes.' — 
Kixtlr\ : iterative optative, with ov riva, see on 215. 

189. Tov 8^ ktX. : apodosis to the hypothetical 6v riva. For 8c in apod- 
osis, cf. 322 ; see § 21 a. — d^avots : cf. 164, 180. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



65 



190. 8ca|ft6vu : the connection decides whether this is used in a respect- 
ful, a pitying, or a reproving tone, c/*. 200. — kokov cSs : for the length of 
the ultima of kokw, c/. opviOis m 764, T 2, 60, 230. See § 14 e. When 
this cSs follows the word to which it belongs, it is accented. Cf. 209, 
289, 326. — Koicdv: coward, kokos and ayajSoq have no moral quality in 
Homer. They are useless and useful, according to the circumstances of 
the case ; here, k€uc6v is useless in war. 

191. aXXovs Xaoifs : Aaovs is virtually in appos. with aXXovs, see § 12/. 
The others, namely the soldiers. 

192. For the * sigmatism,' cf. A 179 f . — ird^a : Attic (7a<^¥ which is 
not found in Homer. Similarly the adv. of wkus is always &ca, rdxa. is 
freq., raxcW only ^ 365. See § 56 b, c. — v6os : mind, purpose. 

193. iKiparoi : cf 73. — t+cTOi : cf A 454. 

194. Iv povX'Q : construe with oTov Uiirev. — irdvrcs dKoWofjicv : the 
speaker politely includes himself with the persons addressed, as 342. 
The 1st person is used in a different tone in 203. 

195. Ti: beware lest perchance, cf. A 26. — x®^**<''^F^^ • see on 
A 387, r 413. — KOKOV vIo« : for the two accusatives after pcfVy, cf. T 351, 
354. 

196. Ov|Ms (Uyos : terrible is the anger. 

197. TV|iii kt\. : " he is king dei gratia ; the rest must obey." Cf 205 ; 
see on A 176. 

196. S^|Mv £v8pa". the common people are contrasted with the nobles 
of 188. The ultima of hrjijuav remains long, see § 59 k. 

199. (rK^mrp^: Odysseus uses the staff in a similar way 265 f. — 
iXAo-ooTKc : iterative aor. from cAawo), l\a<o. 

200. oKovc : give ear. Present as a general injunction, "be obedient." 

201. aio : not enclitic since there is a contrast in the comparison. — 
^prcpoi : cf. A 281. — <rv 8c : closely connected with the rel. clause since 
(TV repeats trco. The English idiom prefers the subordinate construction, 
"while thou art." itrcri is to be supplied. 

202. IvopCOffcios: counted, not a mere cipher. Cf in numero nullo 
Cic. de Or. iii. 56. 213. — PovX'Q : as A 258 ; not in its technical meaning 
of council. Here again appears the freq. contrast of strength of body and 
of mind. See on A 258. 

203. oi |Uv ir«»9 ktX. : a drastic form of expression, suited to the com- 
mon soldiery. "Agamemnon alone commands here, the rest of us must 
obey." 

204. For the asyndeton, cf. A 117. — o^k dYoOdv : as a predicate sub- 
stantive (not a good thing). Cf. triste lupus stabulis Verg. Eel. iii. 
80. — fit #ctX. : asyndeton of contrast. See § 15 c. 



66 



COMMENTARY. 



205. IS«»Ki : granted, sc, fiaurtXeikiv, implied in /Soo-iXeus (unless 206 is 
read). 

206. a-^Un : far them. 'Axoiot from 203 is before the mind. 

207. SCm : strode through. 

208. c/se, 91. 

209. i^xt ^ • ^or the hiatus justified by the caesura, cf, 211 ; see § 27 
for the hiatus allowed after the first foot, see on A 333. Cf. $dXa(r{m 
^X^o-ou A 157. — The second * hemistich ' as A 34. 

210. al^ioXip pp^fjKTov : roars on the shore. — o^iapayct /crX. : * chiastic ' 
with the previous clause (§ 16 a) ; < paratactically ' (§ 21 a) expressing 
result. ** So that the high sea resounds from the noise of the breakers." 

211-277. l^he insolent Thersites and his chastisement. 

211. ItovTo l|W|Tvecv: for the hiatus, cf. 216, 315; see § 27 — koO* 
fSpos: as 99. 

212. 6cp<rCTT|s : from Oipa-o^, the Aeolic form of 6d/xm daring, rash- 
ness. Observe that the poet does not say from what country of Greece 
Thersites came, and thus offends no one by the episode. — Thersites 
makes his cause odious by his advocacy of it. The vulgar demagogue 
was intended by the poet to awaken antipathy, and thus is represented to 
be just as disagreeable and deformed in body as in character. The Greeks 
always associated a beautiful soul with a beautiful person. — fiofh^: 
made emphatic by its position before the caesura. For the form, see § 23 d. 
— d|UTpociHjs : predicate. — IxoXipa : equiv. to Kokuov ^Xaw€, cf. A 575. 

213. ^9 ^ KrX.: a more explicit statement of o/AcrpocmTs. — Acoo^a 
{Stl : lit. knew disorderly things, had a disorderly mind. 

214. Ipil^^vai : the result of ajcoafm ktX., cf ftax^crSai A 8. 

215. oXX* ^Tv ktX. : contrasted with Kara Koa-fiov, while ipili/ixvai sup- 
plies the idea of saying. He was an insolent clown. — cto-oiTo : equiv. to 
S6$eu. For the opt. in a cond. relative sentence, cf. 188, 198, A 610. 
See H. 914 B; G. 1431. 

216. ato^ivTos : predicate. " He was the ugliest man who came " etc., 
cf 673, A 266. — viro TXiov: up under llios, i.e. under the walls of llios. 
cf 249, 492. 673. 

217. ^Xk^ : bandylegged, c/. f a 1 x, f a 1 c o n e s. — tm 8^ ol «S|m* : ** those 
two shoulders of his." 

218. KvpTM, (TvvoxoKdrc : in contrast with a broad-shouldered, heroic 
form. — <rwox»K6Tc * avrdp : the hiatus is justified by the bucolic diaeresis, 
§§ 27 58 h. — viTfpOcv : as contrasted with <^oXkos ktX. 

219. i|rc8vii ktX. : i.e. his misshapen, sugarloaf head was not concealed 
by the thick locks of the Koprj KOfiwavr^^ 'Axaw^ but was covered only 
by sparse hair. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



67 



220. Ix^icrros: c/ A 176. — 'AxiX{|i 'OSvarfji: Achilles and Odysseus 
represented the two cardinal virtues of the heroes, bravery and prudence, 
in which qualities Thersites was lacking. — i&dXtoTa: potissimum. 
Const, with IxOurro^, cf. 57. 

221. vciKcCco-Kc : too* wont to upbraid, contrasted with tot avre. For 
the form (from vciKcto) the old form of miccQ)), cf, vctxctW 243, irmWrcs 
536, crcXcicro A 5, v€iK€Ly<n A 579 ; see § 47 g, — 'A^aiUitvovt : against 
Agamemnon, Dative of interest. 

222. offa KcicXT|7d^ : with discordant cry, — Xfy' ovcCSca : rehearsed (enu- 
merated) reproaches. A.eyeiv in Homer is never strictly equiv. to eiTrciv. 
Thersites accused the king of covetousness, sensuality, cowardice, injus- 
tice. — T^: i,e. Agamemnon, at whom the Achaeans were then angry, 
so that Thersites felt sumpf the applause of his audience. 

223. KOT^ovTo: imp4|Rt to express a continued state of feeling, 
while vtfUa-^rqScv refers* to the occasion which caused their anger. Cf, 
A 331. 

225-242. Speech of Thersites, This assumes a knowledge of Aga- 
memnon's real intention to continue the war. Such knowledge might 
have been gained from the words of Odysseus. 

225. 'Arp^tSii : Thersites gives him no title of honor, but this was not 
necessary, see 284, A 17. — tIo [rtvos] : for what. For the genitive, see on 
A 65. — SiJ avTf : cf A 340. — Instead of inquiring the purpose of Aga- 
memnon, Thersites attributes to the king the most selfish motives (imply- 
ing that he continues the war only for his own private advantage), and 
alludes maliciously to the quarrel with Achilles. — " What dost thou lack ? 
Hast thou not enough ? " 

227. Ivl tcXio-^tls: in your quarters, — l{aCfCTOi: explained by the fol- 
lowing relative clause. Cf, ovXofjLhnjv A 2, koki/v A 10. 

228. vpmrlrr^: superlative formed regularly from TrpHn-os, which is 
already superlative in meaning. Cf, Eng. chiefest, — S(8o)uv ; are wont to 
give, with a cond. reL sentence, cf A 554. For the thought, see on A 124, 
163. — Thersites reckons himself among the brave warriors. — irroXCcOpov: 
as A 164. 

229. r\ In ktX. : surely etc. He answers ironically the question which 
he himself had put. Cf A 203. — crt koX xpvo-oO: gold also as well as 
copper and slaves. Gold was rare in Greece before the Persian wars, but 
was abundant in Asia Minor. Schliemann, however, has found treasures 
of gold ornaments not only at Hissarlik (which many think to be the site 
of the ancient Ilios) but also at Mycenae. — kc oto-ct : for icc with the fut. 
ind., cf A 139, 175. 

230. ^irotm : as ransom, in apposition with Sv. 



68 



COMMENTARY. 



231. ov ktX. : whom I shall take captive and lead etc. Empty boasting, 
as 238. 

232. -ywoSKa Wi|v : i.e. such as Chryseis or Briseis. The accusative 
seems to be caused by attraction to the construction of the preceding rel- 
ative clause ; or ir6SUvi may be in the speaker's mind, a thought carried 
on from hn^v&a. 

233. -fv Tc Kartorxcoi: relative clause with the subjunctive in final 
sense, cf, T 287. — a*T09 dw6voo-+i : for thyself alone, 

234. Apx^v ^vra ktX. : that one who is a leader etc, i,e, that thou who 
art their leader, — kokAv IviPauridiuv : bring into misfortune, Thersites here 
refers to the pestilence and the alienation of Achilles. 

235. ir<irovcs : " my good fellows." This word is generally used by an 
elder or superior, either in an affectionate i^^kor (seldom) iMPtone of 
contemptuous superiority as here. — icdx il^Ri: in concrete personal 
sense, coward caitiffs. — ' AxoiCSfs ktX. : cf re Phrygiae, neque 
enim Phryges Verg. Aen, ix. 617. For the * patronymic,' see § 39 g, 

236. oCkoS^ wip : homeward, at all events, — <rvv vrpMrC : as A 179. — 
t6v8€ : cf &irrjp A 287. 

237. : right here, explained as usual by the following words. It 
often stands as here at the beginning of a verse, cf, 332. — -y^pa ircov^|uv : 
digest {enjoy) his gifts of honor, i.e. learn and suffer the consequences of 
his greed. 

238. f\ Kal li^uts ktX. : whether we too (the rank and file of the Achae- 
ans) are of use to him or not. As if Agamemnon in his pride trusted to 
his own might and to that of the other leaders, despising the rest, bereft 
of whose help he can do nothing. — For the * crasis,' see § 26. — i{c koI 
o^kC : cf, 300, 349. The speaker presents the alternatives as open, but 
still implies a choice between them. 

239. o9 : exclamatoiy, he who. — koL : see on A 109. This intro- 
duces an example of Agamemnon's failure to recognize others' services. 
— ?o [ou] : cf crio for crov, 248. For the length of the last syllable before 
fi, see § 59 h. 

240 = A 366, 507. — Thersites who was wont to speak injuriously of 
Achilles (221), now plays the part of his advocate (and uses his very 
words) in order to attack Agamemnon in a sensitive spot; but he intro- 
duces a fling at Achilles into the next verse. 

241. |idX' o*x X*^- ^^"■ti anger at all. — |u04|m»v: predicate 
with Achilles as subject. Cf /jueOi/juev xoAov A 283. 

242 = A 232. 

244. dcpo-Cnif : strongly contrasted with *08v<r<rcv5 by its position. — 
: for the dative of rest with irapixTraro, see on 175. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



69 



245. vvdSpa: as A 148. — x'^'"'^ ^v9^: the opposite of dyavots circ- 
eo-o-iv 164. — -qvlvairc : for the form, see § 43/. 

246-264. Odysseus rebukes Thersites, 

246. &icpir6|fciiOc : thou endless babbler, cf, 212, 796. For the opposite, 
c/I r 214. — XiT^ wip cf. A, 248. Recognition of his ability, but sar- 
castic. 

247. Cax<o : as A 214. — |it)8' lOcXc : cf. A 277. 

248. oi: construe with ^/u. — xjt^^Art^vi for another form of this 
comparative, c/*. A 114. 

249. ^Q-ax>v: i.e. o/* all who. The relative clause represents a genitive. 

250. o^K OK ktX. : therefore (since thou art the basest of all) shalt 
(jshouldsi) thou not. See on A 301. The speaker returns to the admoni- 
tion of 247. — Pao-iX{ja« : for the plural, c/*. F 49. — dvd o^|u& : i,e, on your 
lips, 

251. Ka(: see on 74. — cr^Cv: for the dative, cf, 'Ayo/xc/xvon 221. — 
v6mv ^\6uTvoi9 : guard the return, which now threatened (as it were) to 
escape them. 

252. oi84 rC vm ktX, : but not at all clearly yet, — Smn icrX. : hoto these 
matters here (of which they are speaking) shcUl end. This verse is ex- 
plained by the following. — ^frya: cf A 518. 

253. vo<rr^<ro)uv : toe shall return, A brief expression for " shall enter 
upon our return, with good or evil fortune." 

254. : as 250. 

255. i|o-ai : fjaOai with a participle often has no thought of contrast 
of position (as sitting to standing), but denotes self-satisfied continuance 
in the action of the participle, cf A 134. The verb is the more note- 
worthy here since Thersites is not sitting (cf 268). — StSof^v : as if from 

cf &<l>Ui A 25, Ti$€i A 441. 

256. -npttcs : observe the contrast with av, — Kcpro|jiMv : cf A 539. 

257. Cf, A 204, 212. Formula to introduce a sharp threat. 

258. In: again, — cSs vv cSSc: as I did just now, — Construe irip 
with ioS' 

259. |ii|ic^ icrX. : apodosis in the form of an imprecation. May 
destruction come upon me and my house." — 'OSvo~f)i: more impressive 
than the personal pronoun i/wC. Cf, A 240. 

260. TT|Xf ifcdxoio : the only child of Odysseus and Penelope. He was 
an infant when his father embarked for Troy. In the Iliad he is men- 
tioned only here and A 354. — KcicXT||jivos ctT|v : being is included in being 
called, see on A 293. Thus this prayer includes the ruin of Telemachus. 

261. ct ktX, : this sentence contains two clauses, connected by fjJv 
... 8c, preceded by crc XaPiDv, which is common to both clauses and which 



70 



COMMENTARY. 



giyes to axrrov 263 its personal reference. — kafAw: see on u»v A 138.— 
dvo Mo-M : strip off, followed by two accnsatiyes. 

262. rd Tf : combines the objects. Whatsoever covers thy nakedness. — 
This would be the most bitter disgrace. 

263. aMv: thyself; the man in contrast with his clothing, cf. A 47. 
See§liy. 

264. imrXi|Y«*t icrX. : flogging thee away from the place of assembly, 
veirXtfYw: like iccicXify«0S 222, rtrfurfimvi 314, does not imply past time. 
See H. 849. — dctic^ovi : a standing epithet of blows. 

265. o^mrpY . . . trX{|(cv : i.e. he gave him a heavy blow oyer the 
back from one shoulder to the other, as a foretaste of the harder beating 
which would follow if he continued his insolence. 

266. cKirfo-c : escaped him, against his will. 

267. (r|ft«8i( ktX. : a weal rose (aviimf) out of the back (i^, under (vird) 
the blow of the staff. 

268. yie^irrpav vwo: repeats inro of ejwraKcan;. — (Im: evidently he 
was not seated at 255, cf 211 f . 

269. dXy^o-as : seized by pain, cf Tapfirfaeu 268, ycXcurouv 270 ; see on 
iScurev A 83. — dxpctov: cognate acc. with i5o>v, casting a silly look, look- 
i^9 foolish. 

270. Kal dxv^fMvoC ircp: they still sympathized with Thersites; they 
had not entirely recovered from their homesickness. — i|8v T^XoMvav: 
hurst into a merry laugh. This laughter quiets their excitement, cf. 
A 599. 

271. r£s: represents public opinion. — CS4v: not of an action prior to 
that of the principal verb, but coincident with it. Casting a glance. — 
irXi|<rCov : as substantive. — dXXov : as 191. 

272. M irdiroi: the interjection which expressed sorrow A 254, here 
expresses pleased surprise. — : verily before now, contrasted with vvv 
8c 274. For the *paratactic' form of expression, cf 798; see § 21 rf. — 
lofrycv : the perfect marks the character of Odysseus as shown in the past, 
while cpc^cv 274 refers to the single act ; just as in English, he has done 
etc., but he never did a better thing." 

273. I{dpx«»v : first suggesting, proposing. 

274. (Uy* apivTov : predicate to toSc the object. " This is far the best 
thing that " etc., c/*. 216. The difference between this and ox apurroy, cf 
A 69, is simply metrical; see § 22 b. — ^pc(cv: for the single p after the 
augment, see § 43 c. 

275. o9 ktX. : relative clause with causal force, since he. — rov \mfh\^pa 
ltrwf6\ov: for the order of words, see on A 340. — ^9%^' checked, equiv. 
to iiravacy. Coincident with epc^cv 274 ; cf the explanation of raSc cpya 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



71 



252 by the following verse. — &Yopd«v : speeches before the people, cf, 788. 
For the genitive, cf. dvr^ 97. 

276. If a conjunction had been used here, it would have had the force 
of sOf there/ore. — ov •ipr : hardly, I think. Or/v is ironical here, like Attic 
Si^irou. — -wAXtv avTis: lit. hack again, again, anew, iraXxv marks a return 
to the same point, cf, A 116. Cf, Scvrcpov auris A 513. 

278-335. Speech of Odysseus "before the assembly of the people. He 
urges the continuance of the tear in accordance toith the omens sent by Zeus, 

278. if trXt|0vs : the crowd there ; with plural as collective. See on 99. — 
&ird im\ : shows that Odysseus resumed his seat after chastising Thersites. 
See on 76. — vroX^iropSos : a general title of honor. The same epithet is 
applied to Achilles. In the Odyssey, it is given only to Odysseus. 

279. vapd : adv., by his side, 

280. Av^yciv : Attic ^vioyci, plpf . as imperfect. See § 30 ik for the final v. 

281. a|ta re: the position of re is free, cf, A 417. It seems to be 
intended here to unite the two verbs, and properly has its place after the 
first of the ideas which it connects. It is the more remarkable here since 
a combination with rc kol follows. — ol trpAroi jcrX. : i,e, the most remote 
as well as the nearest, 

283. See on A 73. 

284. 'Arp^tSfi : Odysseus turns first to the king whose authority has 
been challenged. He now defends the king's purpose directly, as he had 
defended it indirectly in his address to Thersites. He then opposes the 
motives for return which had been advanced. 

285. voo-iv PpoToCo-iv: lit. for all mortals, in the eyes of all men. — 
iK/hfx,irrov : most disgraced. For its formation from IXcy^ov, cf, ^x^uttik 
A 176. — M|uvai : make, Cf, 319 ; see on Iftyxcv A 2. 

286. oM^ TOi icrX. : since they do not." — -fv Mvrfkvi which they 
surely promised, see 339 ; or the very promise that they made, see on 318. 

287. Iv0d8c ktX. : as they were still coming, " as they were on their way 
to Troy." — "Afrycos : i,e, Peloponnesus, see on A 30. For the epithet, cf, 
aptum dicet equis Argos ditesque Mycenas Hor. Carm, i, 7. 9. 

288= 113. — licir^po-avra : ai is subject, supplied from rot above. — 
dvoWco^oi : in apposition with vrroax^o-iv. 

289. if : in truth, as 229, 242, 272. 

290. &XXVjXoMriv : vjith each other, to each other, — Mpovrai : with preg- 
nant force, followed by the infinitive, mournfully they long. See on A 22. 

291. 11 |it|v KoL ktX. : concessive and excusing. "Our trouble has been 
enough to make a man return to his home." The other side of the 
picture is introduced 297 by dXAA koI ^fMnf^. As a wise orator, Odysseus 
concedes that their longing for home is natural (many a man is home- 



72 



COMMENTARY. 



sick after a single month away from his family), but he emphasizes the 
motives for continuing the struggle. — 6.vvifiivra : agrees with rim implied 
as the subject of the infinitive. — Wco^ai: inf. of result, see on /uaxeo*^ 
A 8. 

292. KoXtya: even a single. This introduces an inference a minori 
ad mains. — r£s tc : many a one, — dv6 : cf, 162, A 562. 

293. dfv inp : refers to rk rc. 

294. cCXiliM-iv: for the mode, see on A 554. — opivo|iivi|: when it is 
excited, 

295. i{|&Sv |U|Lv6vrco^ {jufmnxn'] : for us remaining here. " We have 
been here nearly nine years." For the dative, cf. A 250. — w ptrpoir^ttv : 
rolling, cf. 551, volventibus annis Verg. Aen. i. 234, volvendis 
mensibus ib. 269. 

297. doxttXdav [doxoXav] : for the form, see § 47 c. — i^infi : as A 
562. — BtAt even in spite of all that, it is a shame to remain long and yet return 
unsuccessful.' 

298. Sripov ktX. : equiv. to drfpov fieivavra k€V€ov v€€<r$ai. — Kcvf6v : 
empty, i.e. empty-handed, without the booty gained from sacked Troy. 
Cf the words of Agamemnon, when after Menelaus has been wounded 
he supposes some Trojan to say koll 8^ ifirf oIkov^ ^Ikriv h mrpl&t. yaSav \ 
avy KOVQoriv (empty) vqwri A 180 f . 

299. For the '.asyndeton,* cf 276. — M xp^vov : for a time, 

300. 11 4Tf6v: whether in truth. For ^ ... ^c, see § 20 b. 

301. t68c : refers to 303 ft., and thus to 308 ft. 

302. (fcVj : as hy^thetical. This is the only instance in Homer of 
fjuq with the indicative in a conditional relative clause. Cf 143. — ifav 
^povo-oi : see on A 391. 

303. Tc Kal vpmXfi.: proverbial of an event still well remembered. 
For TC KOI, see § 21 g. — AiXCSa: a Boeotian harbor on the Euripus, oppo- 
site Chalcis in Euboea, where the Achaean forces gathered, in order to 
set sail together for Troy. See § 6 a. This place and the muster of the 
troops there received greater prominence in the later stories of this 
Trojan expedition. 

304. •^Ycp^Oovro : descriptive imperfect. Cf A 25. 

305. tifuts 8^: independent sentence, explaining ore ktX. 303. — dfi^l 
ircpC : on both sides around, round about. Such a spring is still shown at 
Aulis. — Kara fU»yjo^ : see on A 318. The numerous altars of the differ- 
ent tribes occupied considerable space. Evidently the Greeks had no 
temple thei'e, or it would have been mentioned. As in the earliest times 
of their religion, the woods were their temples. 

306. TcXi|4(nra« : as A 315. 



SECOND BOOK OP THE ILIAD. 



73 



307. TXaravCorr^ : plane tree, highly valued by the orientals, which 
often shades springs and streams. A fragment of this tree was shown 
as a holy relic in the temple of Artemis, in the time of Hadrian. 

308. Ma: then, repeats the idea of x^^a rc icrX. 303. — SpdKMv: 
'appositive asyndeton.' — Sa^tvtfg: all blood red, 

309. *OX^|Mrios: see on A 353, c/ 324. 

310. virat{ii«: darting from under the altar. — points back 
to cv yap roSc i3/Aev. 

311. v^ma r/icva: tender children (fledglings), cf, fi'/jTrfp 313 of the 
mother-bird. The words of human relationship are used of birds and beasts. 

312. vTOTKirrti&TH : crouched under, 

313. oktA : part of the wonder, since sparrows generally lay only four 
or five eggs. The numbers receive prominence since the interpretation 
of the omen rests only on the equal number of sparrows and years of war. 
Cf. Pharaoh's dream with its seven fat kine for seven years of plenty, 
and seven lean kine for seven years of famine. Gen. xli. ii^tnip, i{ Wkc : 
for the * epexegesis,' see § 12 c. 

314. IXiCivd: cognate accusative, adverbial with rerpiySmii, — TfrpiY» 
Toc : for the tense, see on 264. 

315. difc^voTOTo o8vpo|iivY| : for the hiatus, see on 211. — Wicva : object 
of the finite verb. 

316. IXcXi{d)uvos : coiling itself, in order thus to strike the bird with 
greater force. — irrlptryos : for the gen., cf yovyiav A 407. — dfi^taxvtav : 
repeats concisely the verb and participle of 315. 

317. Kard i^y€ : Kara is used as in KarrjarSu 314, KaroKcuia. 

318. dpC{T|Vov: neuter adj. as substantive. Cf. 204. Pred. after 
$rjK€v» Made this to be something very clear, i.e, a sign from the gods. — 
is inp : the same god who. — f^vcv: equiv. to i/ice f^ooxrSe 309. 

319. Xdav ^dp |uv IOi|kc : made it a stone, turned it to stone. Cf. fit 
lapis et superat serpentis imagine sazum Ovid il/e^ xii. 23. 

320. otov lr^Oi| : tohat had happened. Exclamation giving the con- 
tents and reason of Oavfjoiofiey. 

321. Sciva ir^pa : dire portents, i,e, the serpent with its deeds and its 
petrifaction. — cUrv|X0c : here followed by an accusative. 

322. C/. A109. 

323. dvcip l^vfcrOc : became mute. 

324. lifitv: emphatic. — |Uv: /jwyv. — r6U: object, with rc/ms fteya as 
predicate. 

325. ji|ri|Mv 6^i,T&Arrw : for the repetition of o^c, see § 12 d \ for the 
asyndeton, cf A 99, § 15. — oov kX^os : because of the fulfilment of the 
prophecy. For the form Sov, see on 518, § 35 b. 



74 



COMMENTARY. 



327 = 313. — This verse is repeated since the numeral adjectiyes are 
most important for the interpretation of the omen. 

328. «ToXi|iC£o|uv [iro\e/AAov/i£v] : as from a y-stem ; see § 48 j, — clvOi: 
t.e. before Ilios, like avrov 237. 

329. Scxdry : the article calls attention to this as the decisive year. 
On that tenth, " then, in the tenth year." Cf, IvBa /uv dmerc? tto^^^iuCoijxv 
vies 'A;(auov, | r<p Scxarcp Sc itoKjlv Upid/junj tripaavrt^ iptf/uev | oTxaSc mrv 
vq€icrin ( 240 f. there for nine years we sons of the Achaeans fought, but on the 
tenth we sacked the city of Priam, and set out for home with our ships. 

330. T«f : thus, as V 415. It is related to the more usual (09, as the 
Homeric roi to the article ot. 

331. &f€ : as iLtterjection, with the plural, see on A 62. 

332. nrrv : ue. the ttoXlv of 329. The poet's choice between the two 
words is often determined by the convenience of his verse, § 22 6, c. 

333. 8^ xrX. : ' paratactic ' clause to express result, see § 21. So 
that the ships resounded etc. Parenthetical as A 10, T 134, 410. hraiv^ 
cravrcs 335 refers not to ^Axomop 334 but to 'Apyctbi 333. 

334. &vo^rrMv kt\. : from the shout etc. For the genitive see § 19 (2 y. 

335. ImWjo-avTcs : adds the reason for the shout. — 'OSvo-mfoc OcCom : 
standing verse-close, see § 12 b. 

336-393. Nestor's speech and Agamemnon's reply. 

336. KcU: a2so, with reference to the preceding speakers. — Fcp^vtos: 
so called from the Messenian town where Nestor was bred and which was 
his place of refuge when Heracles sacked Pylos. — l-rvdra : tmr^n^s, 
2inrev5, knight. But he was not mounted on horseback like the later 
Imrw. 

337. dyop^u&o^c : with lengthened initial vowel, see § 59 6. — This re- 
proach, though addressed to all the Greeks, is directed only against those 
who sympathize with Thersites in his longing to return. Nestor speaks 
more vehemently than Odysseus, who had prepared the way with argu- 
ments. — For the brief comparison, see § 14 d. 

338. iroXcti^iCk cfry«: < periphrasis ' for irQA.c/ji09» see § 16 cf. 

339. Si] p^o'CToi : a rhetorical question. " What will become of 
compacts if no one thinks of keeping them?" — <rw0f<r(eu rt koI ^pxta: 
t.6. compacts sworn at sacrifices, here referring to the solemn sacrifice at 
Aulis. Hence Dido says non ego cum Danais Troianam ex- 
scindere gentem | Aulide iuravi Yerg. ^^n. iv. 425f. Odysseus 
called it only an viroa;x^^^» ^^^* — ni^v: e^cal dative. "Our agree- 
ments." 

340. Iv wpl kt\.: ironical wish in his indignation. *<Let all be 
thrown into the flames, as worthless." — Iv irvpC : cf, E 215, where the 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



75 



archer Pandarus, in vexation, tows to break Ms bow and throw it into 
the fire, as useless. 

341. wovSol aKpf|TOi : Itbatioru to the gods with unmixed wine, see on T 
270 ; although no wine was drunk unmixed with water. — Sc(i,«( : see on 
SeicaTi; A 54. Le. pledges given by the right hand. — lirlmOiuv : pluperfect 
without variable vowel, for mmnBtiiuv, see § 49 c. 

342. ckvr«»t : withoxU change, vainly, cf, 138. It is explained by what 
follows. — ^^x^ ' ^^^y of relief , sc. from this contest of words to come to 
deeds and the conquest of Troy. 

344. 'Arp^tSri, 8^: as A 282. — In: construe with c^;(cvc. ''In the 
future as in the past." — lx«v icrX. : holding firmly to thy determinatum, 
8c, to capture Troy. Here begins the direct exhortation to Agamemnon 
to seize again with decision the reins of his authority. 

346. Ick ^ivMiv : let them perish ! — cv« koI Sifo : for the idiomatic use 
of Kxu, cf 303, A 128, V 363. He intentionally depreciates the number 
of the renegades, and mentions no names. — 'Axai«v : partitive genitive 

with T04. 

347. vdo-^v povXc^M»o%: ^^plan apart from us, separating their cause 
from ours, like Thersites.*' — £vvo-is . . . avr«v: parenthetical, connected 
with the preceding by the contrast between PovXcwixn and Swats* — 
ckMv : neuter, of the plans (Povkevfrnra) implied in Povkcwixn. 

348. wplv Uvoi : depends on PovXewaau For irptv, vplv, see on A 98. 
— Ai6s: by 'prolepsis' (cf dSe\^oi'409) connected with yimpjma, and 
supplied in thought for vrrocrxccn?. 

349. cC Tf, cC Tf : indirect questions, as A 65. — xal ovkC : cf 238. 

350. : maintain, assert. — ovv : at all events. This particle is not 
frequent in Homer. It occurs about 60 times in Iliad and Odyssey. — 
Karavcikrai : intransitive, gave a promise. See on A 514. 

351. ffitari ^ti : closely connected, as a standing formula, as 743. — 
Iv ipcuvov : cf. 510, 619, Tpoiriv dvajSi^/Acvot a 210 embark and set 

sail for Troy. 

352. 'Apyftoi: for the position, see § 11 j. — ^povns: cf 304. 

353. &o^pdirr«iv: as if on Kareveva-t Kpovtwv had preceded. This 
change of construction is caused by the intervening 351 f. A more 
violent ' anacoluthon * is V 211. — ImS^ta: on our right, i.e. on the propi- 
tious side. — ^(vMv: interpretation of SiorpdirTwv. For the 'chiastic' 
order of words, cf. A 443, 558 f . 

355. vplv ktX.: i.e. before the capture of Troy. The women and 
children of a captured city were treated as slaves, the men were killed. 
See §6 5. — Tivd : in a collective sense, referring to each individual, as is 
also Tpwuv dXoxc^ 



76 



COMMENTARY. 



356. rtaaa^ax : ' chiastic ' with tcaraKoifJLrfi^vai, with which it is coin« 
cident. The Trojans shall be repaid, like for like — *EXIn)t dpfi^iaAro 
icrX. : the longings and sighs of Helen, i.e. those which she felt and uttered. 
The poet attributes to Nestor a knowledge of Helen's repentance (see on 
r 173) and earnest longing to return to Greece (see V 139 f.). Paris is 
everywhere in Homer held chiefly responsible for Helen's fault, although 
she followed him willingly. She is always attractive in Homer. Vergil 
{Aen, vi. 511 ff.) represents her in a much more unpleasant light. 

357. lKirdYX«f : as 223. 

358. QnrrM» ifs vi|6s : cf, 171. In a threatening tone. " Only let him 
prepare to depart I Instead of returning as he wishes, before the rest, 
he will find death here, before the rest." For the imperative, cf. A 302. 

— ivo-o^|ioio icrX. : as 170. 

359. ^^pa: in order that This was the natural consequence to be 
expected. — Odvarov: ue. the punishment of death. — vdrfiov: cf. fuff 
"'Ricropa TTOTfjuK eroifioi 2 96 after thou hast killed Hector, death is ready 
for thee. 

360. £ira(: Nestor turns to Agamemnon. — viCM r aXX^: this is the 
leading thought, as is shown by what follows, while cv fxi^o recapitulates 
344 f . " As thou must plan wisely thyself, so also follow another's advice." 

361. &«4pXi|Tov : for the final syllable, long by position before a lost 
consonant, see § 59 J. 

362. Kptvc: separate, i.e. place in position separately, as 446. — KaTol 
^vXa : distributive, bg tribes, the principal division of each Greek people, 
cf 668. — Kord ^p^rpos : by clans, to which the separate families belonged. 

— Cf * According to your tribes, . . . according to the families thereof ; 
and the family which the Lord shall take shall come by households.' 
Joshua vii. 14. — This verse suggests such a catalogue as follows, 484 ff. — 
This separation of the army into divisions might have been expected 
early in the war. But this time is the beginning of the war, so far as 
the hearer is concerned. 

363. c«s ^p^Tp^ 1^^- ' equiv. to oXXi/Xms. 

365. Tf XoAv : sc. ^gau The clause is relative, not interrogative. 

366. Kard o-^os : by themselves separately. Cf. A 271. 

367. Ti Kal Oc<nrco-C^ : whether thou hast failed not simply because of 
the inefficiency of the army, but also by decree of the gods. This refers to 
111 ff. — &\aird(cks: future since the success of this measure will not 
appear until in the future. 

368. -q: or only, as the English idiom requires, to correspond -to Koi 
above. 

369-393. Agamemnon*s speech. He calls them to battle. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



77 



370. ij liAv: strong asseveration, in very truth, — awn: again, "as 
often before." Agamemnon's praise is bestowed upon Nestor's whole 
speech. 

371. This appeal to the three chief divinities is made in the case of 
ardent wishes. Generally, as here, fulfilment of the wish is not expected. 

372. oni|i^pdS|iovcs : equivalent to crvfifiovkoi. Cf, ^pama A 83. 

374. x<P<''^* viro : for viro with the dative, in its transition from local 
to instrumental sense, see § 19 /. — oXoOo-a: aorist, to mark the cap- 
ture of the city as the decisive moment, while trtpOofityrf refers to the 
duration of the work of destruction, cf. A 331. 

375. Kpov(8i)s Zci»s: closely connected, cf. A 502. — The verses which 
immediately follow seem inconsistent with the confident expectation ex- 
pressed 412 ff. — For the complaint, cf. 111. 

376. €^ : as 275. — i&crd : into the midst of cf A 222, 423. — dv(W|icTOv« : 
cf 121. — pdXXci : casts, is wont to entangle in. 

377. |taxt|o'd|&cOa : cf ipiSi (werfKc fuix^o^ai A 8. — ctvtKa Ko^|n|« : here 
marks the insignificant occasion of the quarrel. 

378. iipxov : construe with the participle. — xo^<*^^^v : i.e. the 
quarrel. 

379. Is y% (itttv kt\. : sc. PovXrjv, cf Se^uu 341. Agree in counsel , the 
opposite of d^<f>U ^paI<^(rBajL, cf. 14. 

380. ov8' rfioAAv : not in the least. 

381. Sctirvov : the principal meal of the day, no matter when it is 
taken. See § 17. The warriors would have no more food until night. 
A considerable part of the day had passed during the events narrated 
since 48. — {uvd*y«i|&cv *'Apf|a : i.e. begin the sharp contest, see on 426. Cf. 
440, A 8, r 70, committere proelium. 

382. t(s : collective. — iv : the repetition is rhetorical, cf. Ik A 436 ff. 
— Cf * Arm, warriors, arm for fight I ... let each | His adamantine coat 
gird well, and each | Fit well his helm, gripe fast his orbed shield,' Milton 
Par. Lost vi. 537 ft. 

384. apt&aTos &|i^(s: construe with i3a>v, looking carefully about his 
chariot, to see that all was in good condition. The principal idea is in 
the participle, not in the finite verb. See § 21 i. 

385. iravi)|UpiOi : as A 472. — cSs Kpiv^fuOa : that we may measure our 
strength. — owycpip *'A(n|i : dative of interest, i.e. in dread battle. 

386. |uWo-o^ai : shall be between, sc. the conflicts. 

387. |Uvos dvSpwv : for the periphrasis, cf. 851, V 105. See § 16 d. 

388. Tfd [rivos] : many a one*s. The strap of the shield ran over the 
left shoulder and under the right arm. The shield was so heavy that it 
needed support from the body as well as from the arm. 



78 



COMMENTARY. 



389. dfi^pp6TT|s : manrpratecHng. d/A^t is connected with ofufHa on both 
sides. — • specification. — koiuCtoi : sc. rU from rev. 

391. Cf. A 549. — iO^vra: inclined, ready. — vo^vm: perceive. See 
§17. 

392. |U|ivAt<^v : object of €0€\ovm. A collateral form of /lim, /ufivio, 
see § 37 a. — : by no means, emphatic at the head of the clause, to con- 
trast the following thought with the coward's expectation. — ot : personal 
pronoun instead of a demonstrative after the cond. rel. sentence, cf. A 
218. 

393. opxiov: appointed, fated. — lo-o-clrai [lorat] : for the form, see H. 
426; G. 777,6. — Kvvot ktK.: see on A 4. — "Nothing shall save him 
from death." 

394-440. Breaking up of the assembly. The sacrifice. 

394. cSs ^Ti: introduces a comparison, see § 14 e. Sc. la^iy. — Cf 
<He scarce had finished when such murmur filled | Th' assembly, as 
when hollow rocks retain | The sound of blust'ring winds, which all night 
long I Had roused the sea,' etc. Milton Par. Lost ii. 284 ff. * He ended, 
and the heavenly audience loud | Sung Hallelujah as the sound of seas,' 
ib. X. 641 f., ^ He said, and as the sound of waters deep, | Hoarse murmur 
echoed to his words applause,' ib. v. 872 f. 

395. KiWjo^ : for the subjunctive, c/! A 80. Sc. KVfm as object. 

396. o-Koir^y : locative, in partitive apposition with oKry. See on 145. 
— Kvitara dW|u»v : i.e. waves roused by the winds. Cf cXkci vhpov 723, 
ff^oPov" Xpftjo^ 767, vovQ-av Atos t 411 disease sent by Zeus. 

397. av Y^vMVTOi : sc. dve/wi. This explains iravrotm, but the whole 
sentence is a picturesque decoration of the comparison. See § 14 a. — 
Ive* tJ Ma : in this direction or in that, cf. 90, 462, 476, 812. 

398. opIovTo : they hastened away. — xard vi|a$ : cf 47. 

400. Ipc^c : for the imperfect, see on d<^c£i A 25. — Ocuv ktX. : cf A 290. 
Each of the tribes offered sacrifices to its national god. 

402. Upcvo-cv: sc. as he prepared a feast for the *Gerontes.' Kings 
generally sacrificed to Zeus, as their patron. See on A 176. — *Aya^^- 
v»v : in appos. with o, see § 42 h. 

403. vcvTiUnipov : i.e. full grown. This age was thought to be the 
best for beef and pork. — KpovUvi: dative of interest, in his honor, with 
iipexxrcv. 

404. Y^povTas: see on ycpovrcov 21. The following seem to be the 
members of the Povkrj of 53. 

405. irp<&Tk(rTa : Nestor has the first place in the regard of Agamem- 
non. See 20, 371 ff. Idomeneus has a high place, cf. A 145. Idomeneus 
is also a great friend of Menelaus, cf T 232. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



79 



406. AtavTf : see on A 138. — Tv8los vUv : i.e. Diomed, king of Argos. 
See on 567. 

408. aM|taTos : of his own accord. He needed no invitation. He 
holds a special relation. — Poijv &7a06s: an important element of influ- 
ence in battle when trumpets were not used. This epithet is applied to 
Menelaus 25 times. See § 12 b. 

409. &8cX^6v: the subject of the subordinate clause is taken by 
anticipation (H. 878) as the object of the principal clause, cf. 348, * I 
know thee who thou art/ St. Luke iv. 34. — The form dScX^os is not 
Homeric ; Kaxrlyvrfro^ is found in Homer about twice as freq. as dScX^coc. 
— fl&s lirovttTo : how busy he was in preparing for the feast and the battle. 

410. «f p((rrr|o-av ; 2d aorist, cf, A 448. — oi^XoxvToc ktX. : as A 449. 

412. Zed kt\.: equiv. to Jupiter Optimus Maximus. — The 
different attributes are given without conjunctions, see 15 a. — The elated 
tone of the prayer results from the king's infatuation by the dream, cf. 
37 ff. — KcXaivc^ : since the god appears in the dark thunder-cloud. — 
am^ : c/. A44, 195. 

413. M : const, with ^vvoi, sc. upon the battle. — lirl Ki4^«it iXOctv : cf. 
A 475. — The infinitives depend on 809 implied in the invocation. The 
optative follows in 418. — The wish reminds of Joshua's words: *Sun, 
stand thou still upon Gibeon; and thou, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon. 
And the smn stood still, and the moon stayed, until the people had 
avenged themselves upon their enemies,' Joshua x. 12 f . 

414. Tpi|vls : proleptic predicate after Kara ^oXcW, cf. pwyaXiov 417, 
aXuurrav 420. 

415. al6aX6cv : the ceiling-timbers were blackened by the smoke from 
the fires and torches for which no adequate outlet was provided. — 
irp4)om : const, with the genitive. — Oitpcrpa : i.e. the double door which 
with its decorations formed a principal ornament of the palace. 

416. 'Eirrdpcov : equivalent to ""Eicropos. See on 20. 

417. x'^i'V ' ^onze, i.e. sword; see on A 236. So )(aXK6q is sometimes 
used for ai*mor, as 578. — iroX^cs: ttoXAo^ see § 38 c. — dji^' a,Mv: about 
himself as the chief personage. 

418. oSoE kt\. : bite the dust, in the last convulsive agony of death, cf. 
humum semel ore momordit Verg. Aen. xi. 418. — oSd{: equiv. to 
Tots o8cw<nv, cf. irv$ T 237 with the fst, Xdi Z 65 with the foot. 

419. liTf KpaCaivc : cf. A 455. Coincident in time with c<^ro. 

420. S^KTo : 2d aor., cf. SixOax A 23. Zeus gave no sign of displeasure, 
hence it was inferred that he accepted the sacrifice. — ^^tXXcv: i.e. he 
gave them greater labor of war instead of giving them peace, cf.dS^t, 

421-424 = A 458-461. 425. Cf. A 462. 



80 



COMMENTARY. 



426. *H^a(o^io : i.e. blazing fire. The god is put for his element. 
Cf. ''A.prp for iroXc/io^ 381 ; *A/Li^irpin; for Odkcuraa ft 97 ; 'A^/^oSin; for 
IpmX^^y Vulcanum spargere tectis Verg. ^cn. vii. 77. 

427-432 = A 464-469. 433. ro&s : see on A 58. 

435. |ii|icln KrX. : no longer now let us talk here for a long time. Nestor 
wished to prevent the conversation that generally followed a feast. He 
agrees with Agamemnon, 381 ft., in calling for action. 

436. &|fcPaXX<6|icea: cf. &inip\rj<ni 380. — S^: noic^M^i i.e. Zeus.— 
fyYvaX.4ci : gives into our hands, sc. in so far as the Dream directed the 
immediate preparation for battle. 

437. aye: here only in Homer with 3d pers. imperative, but this is 
equiv. to <^bid the heralds'* etc. — K^pvKfs: i.e. Agamemnon's, as 50, 442. 
— 'Axoiwv : construe with Aaoi^, as 163. 

439. lifu&s: i.e. the princes who are named 405 ff. — d0p6oi cSSc: assem- 
bled as toe are. 

440. 0CUJVOV : the quicker, — lYcCpo|&cv kt\. : cf. 381. 

441- ^483. The army goes forth to fight. 

442- 444. C/. 50-52. 

442. ckirCKa : * asyndetic,* see § 15 c. 

445. ol S* d|i^' 'Arpctttva : " The son of Atreus and the other princes." 
See H. 791, 3 ; G. 1202, 3. 

446. KpCvovTfs: following Nestor's advice, 862. — i&cra 8^: hut among 
them, as 477. — She is unseen. So Apollo leads the Trojans forward, 
ccficros wfwuv v€<l>€\rp^ O 308 with a cloud wrapped about his shoulders. 
See on A 198. — 'AdVjvt) : sc. Ovve, which is taken up by Biia-trvTo 450. 

447. cUyCSa : as goddess of war (on A 206), Athena wears the Aegis 
of Zeus to inspire terror. The Aegis was a symbol of the thunder cloud, 
just as the Gorgon's head upon it represented the thunder storm. This 
is worn by Athena regularly in works of art. — dY^paov kt\: explanatory 
of ipiTifAov. Syi^pao^ is always associated by Homer with aOdvaro^, and 
elsewhere in the poems is used only of persons, excepting the gold and 
silver dogs that guard the palace of the king of the Phaeacians. 

448. Tfjs : from which. Construe with rjcpiOovrajL. — The present is 
used of a divine and imchanging quality. 

449. ItnrXcK^cs: evidently the art of drawing gold into thin threads 
was known in the Homeric period. — iKardfipoios : worth a hundred oxen, 
Cf. 649 for the round number. Cattle formed the standard of value in 
those times. Coined money was unknown. See § 5 c. , • 

451. Iv : const, with wpcrey. 

452. KopSCn : in partitive apposition with €KdaT<o. See § 12 g. KopSCrf 
is found in Homer only in this verse, elsewhere KpaUiq, as 171 ; see § 31. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



81 



455-483. Six splendid comparisons^ each of which progressively gives 
prominence to a new point; (1) the gleam of their armor ^ 455-458; (2) their 
noisy tumult^ 459-466 ; (3) their multitude^ 467 f . ; (4) their eagerness for 
/Ae yray, 469-473 ; (5) theirmarshalling leaders, ^74rA79 ; (6) Agamemnon 
as commander-inrchiefy 48(X-483. See § 14 c. 

455. rjfirt: as 87. — cUSt|Xov: destructive. — &rwrrov: sc. in extent. 
This is essential for the comparison since the extent of the fire is a condi- 
tion of its brightness as seen at a distance. 

456. (KuBtv : from afar, where the poet chooses his station with the 
men who are looking on. 

457. Twr : of these, limits ^(aXKolv. — lpxo|Uv«»y : as they were going forth, 
— Ofovfo-CoiOL; sc. because of the throng. 

458. Si at0^pos : ue. reaches through the aether to the home of the 
gods. See on A 195. 

459. Twr : prepares the way for the leading clause. It is taken up by 
TW 464, as TOU5 474 is taken up by tous 476. — cOvca : cf 87. . 

460. x^v6v : the specializing of opvlBiov forms a concrete picture, of 
which the definite local designation forms a part. — icvicvaiv: cf ceu 
quondam nivei liquida inter nubila cycni Yerg. ^en. vii. 699. 

461. *Ao-(^: for the use of the adjective, cf ev XeiiJMvi '^KafmvBpi^ 
467, Asia prata Yerg. Geor^. i. 383, quale s sub nubibus atris| 
Strymoniae dant sign a g):ues id. A en. x. 264: f. — From this plain 
of Lydia south of Mt. Tmolus, the name of Asia spread to the Persian 
Empire and finally over the whole continent ; just as < Europe * at first was 
only the Boeotian plain. 

462. Ma kt\. : to this side or to that, cf 397. — dYaXX6|uva icrA. : lit. 
delighting with their wings, Le. with joyous play of their wings. 

463. KXaxyt|8ov vpoKa0ii;6vr«iv : settling (^forward) with loud cries, refer- 
ring to opviOfov 459. The fiocks with incessant noise fly on again and 
again to settle in another spot, and the last birds to reach the ground take 
their places in front of the rest. — o^opa^cC 8^ : for the * parataxis,' see on 
210. 464 =r 91. 

465. vcSCov : ue. the plain between the camp and the city. — vpoxcovro : 
cf. *Saw what numbers numberless | The city gates outpour'd, light- 
arm'd troops ' etc. Milton Par. Regained iii. 310 f . — vir* : adv., explained 
by the following ablatival genitive iroSuv. 

466. cMAy icrX. : of both themselves and their horses, cf 762. This 
limits wSlay. 

467 1 The third comparison is closely connected with the preceding. 
— Ivrav: halted, stopped, as they came to the field of battle. For the 
aorist, see on 94. 



COMMENTARY. 



468. Mpg : in the secutm, ue. in spring. 

469. ijfrn kt\. : protasis to rooooc ktX. 472. The verb is here omitted 
in the first member of a comparison. — ^wAmv : the fly has elsewhere also 
the character of an impudent, eager insect. — dStvcuiv (fOvta : cf. 87. 

470. i|Xd(rKovo%v : always hover about. 

471. ^Tf kt\. : explains Zpvf iy eiapivg. — ri: marks the close connec- 
tion of the clauses. See § 21 b, 

472. M T^dtwax : to battle against the Trojans. Mia here used with 
the dative, implying hostility, see on A 382. 

473. tcrravTo : were taking their positions. — Sic^ipato-oi : sc. TfHMS. 

474. vXaWa: standing epithet, broad, wide-feeding, i.e. scattered as 
they feed ; in contrast with * huddling * sheep. — alirdXot avSpcs : cf. fia- 
orcX^i av^i T 170, avSp€i arpar-qyoi, Sa^p€% arparMrax, SvSpe^ d3cA<^' 
Acts xxiii. 1. 

475. SuucpCvMo^v : separate. Subjunctive of a general supposition, cf. 
A 554. — vo|jup : dative of place. — ^lyimtrw : sc. ahroXw. axyStv as subject. 

476. SiCK6o'|uov: cf hunKwriLtfitlfuv 126, &a rpC-xa Kocriiifieirre^ 655. 

477. Uvoi : for the infinitive, cf fjuax^<rOai A 8. — furd : adverb, as 446. 

478. All ktX. : Agamemnon combines the majesty of Zeus with the 
grace of Ares. These characteristics of the gods seem known to the 
hearers from works of art. Cf T 167 ff. Homeric comparisons of men 
with gods are generally indefinite, not specifying a particular feature. — 
Cf. * See what a grace was seated on this brow ; | Hyperion's curls ; the 
front of Jove himself ; | An eye like Mars, to threaten and command; | 
A station like the herald Mercury | . . . A combination and a form in- 
deed, I Where every god did seem to set his seal,' Shakspere Hamlet iiL 
4. 55 ff . 

479. For the < chiasmus,' cf A 443, 558 f . See § 16 a. — li&vi|v : waist. 

480. povs : made more definite by its appositive raOpos. See § 12/. — 
dy^il^i, : in the herd. For the ending, see § 33 a. — : far, see on 
A 78. — IvXtro : gnomic aorist, freq. in comparisons ; cf A 418. 

481. ^dp Tf : always connected, like nam que. 

482. Totov : such a one, sums up the characteristics which have been 
mentioned. In spite of 419, Zeus sustains the royal honor which he him- 
self had granted (on A 176). 

483. Imrpcir^a: in appos. with rocbv. — ^{ox^v* elsewhere followed by 
the genitive. 

The Catalogue of the Ships. 

484-785. The forces of the Achaeans. 
484-493. Prooemium : Invocation of the Muses. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



83 



484. Solemn invocation of the muses where a faithful memory is 
needed for telling the story, or where the theme taxes the poet's powers. 
Cyi aciSc ^ca A 1, avSjpa /Aoi ImTTC /iovTO nunc Helicon a, 
deae, cantusque movete, | . . . et meministis enim, divae, 
et memorare potestis ; | ad nos yix tenuis f amae perlabi- 
tur aura, Verg. Aen. vii. 641, 645 f. — For the repetition of the invo- 
cation, cf, 'Descend from Heaven, Urania,' Milton Par. Lost vii. 1. — 
viiv: now, closely connecting what follows with the advance of the 
Achaeans that has been described, 455-483. — lioOo-oi: pi. as 594. Homer 
does not know the name of any muse, and has their number as nine only 
ta 60. The earlier number seems to have been three, — the same as of 
the Fates, Graces, Hours, etc. The muses could not be assigned to differ- 
ent arts and sciences before the arts and sciences existed. — For the 
rhyme between the words before the caesura and the close of the verse, 
see § 13 0. — For this Catalogue of forces, cf. Joshua xv.-xix., Numbers 
xxvi., Hesiod's Theogony, Vergil's Aeneid vii. 641-817, and Milton's list 
of fallen angels (Paradise Lost i. 392-521). 

485. irdpcoTc: sc. vamv from rnvrcu — This verse and the next fol- 
lowing are parenthetical. — Cf. * Say first, for Heav'n hides nothing from 
thy view, | Nor the deep tract of Hell ' etc. Milton Par. Lost i. 27. 

486. ij|&cts : toe singers. — kX^ : report, " what people say," in contrast 
with ISfuey. — dKovofuv: we hear. Equiv. to we have heard, as in the 
English idiom. 

487. C/. 760. 

488. irkrfi^v: as 143. — av fivO^o^lMu: for the subjunctive with av, 
c/. A137, 139; see § 18 6. 

489. cl: not even if. — Cf. non ego cuncta meis amplecti 
versibus opto, | non, mihi si linguae centum sint, oraque 
centum, | ferrea vox Verg. Georg, ii. 42 f., Aen. vi. 625, si vox in- 
fragilis, pectus mihi firmius aere, | pluraque cum Unguis 
pluribus ora forent Ovid Trist. i. 5. 53 f. 

490. x^Kfov: epithet of strength and firmness. — iiTop: i.e. lungs. 
491 f. This thought is hard to reconcile with the preceding, which 

notes the physical impossibility of rehearsing the names of so great a 
multitude. — 'OXv|i,iridScs : not a patronymic here, but a mere adjective of 
connection, cf. OupanWes A 570. The muses are 'OXv/attuz Stofwr ^xp^ 
€nu 484. See § 39 a. — Au>s ktX. : cf. 598, 0€a [/xowa] Ovyarep Aids a 10. 
The mother, according to the later myth, was Mnemosyne {Memory). 

492. M TXiov : see on 216. 

493. This verse promises something different from 487. — Apx^vs av: 
in contrast with irXrjOw 488. — vpoirdo-os: all together; as the poet adds 



84 



COMMENTARY. 



a statement of the number of the ships to the names of the leaders of 
each people. 

494 . The Catalogue seems to have been prepared for an account of 
the mustering of the Greeks at Aulis and the embarkation thence (cf, 
509 f.), and to have been inserted here with divers alterations. We 
expect here an account of the forces, not of the ships. 

The nations, their leaders, and the number of their ships are enu« 
merated in a definite geographical order, in three principal divisions: 
I. (a) The main land of Greece south of Thermopylae ; (6) middle and 
southern Greece with the islands immediately adjoining. 16 contingents. 
(494-644.) II. Insular Greece, from Crete to Calydnae. 4 contingents. 
(645-680.) m. Thessalian Greece, from Mts. Oeta and Othrys on 
the south, to Olympus on the north. 9 contingents. (681-759.) See 
p. vii. of the Vocabulary. 

The Achaean ships number in all 1186. The number of men on each 
ship is stated for only two contingents : each Boeotian ship carried 120 
men (510) ; each of the ships of Philoctetes brought 50 men (719). The 
ships of Achilles also brought each 50 men (11 170). From the average 
of the two numbers given for the Boeotians and the ships of Philoctetes, 
the ancients reckoned the whole number of Achaeans before Troy as about 
100,000. Others reckoned the ships roundly as 1200, assigned 100 men 
to each ship, and thus estimated the whole number of Achaeans as 
120,000. 

The Greeks valued this list highly, because of its geographical and 
statistical information. They looked upon it as a part of history, a 
versified geography and gazetteer. They appealed to it to settle disputed 
questions, and the charge of interpolating verses in it was like a charge 
of falsifying public records. 

The poet evidently desires to represent this expedition as a great 
national undertaking. He enumerates even those nations which from 
their inland position were not likely to have had anything to do with 
such a war, e,g, the Arcadians (603-614), who are not mentioned in the 
rest of the Iliad as taking part in the battles on the plain of Troy. The 
poet does not seem to exalt one nation at the expense of another, either 
here or in the other parts of the Iliad, A bard wandering from country 
to country would acquire a wealth of geographical information, but would 
form no strong local attachments. 

'EAAas and the 'EAXtvcs in this Catalogue are restricted to a part of 
Thessaly, 683 f. The Dorians and lonians are not mentioned. No Greek 
colonies are known, whether in Asia Minor, in Sicily and the West, or 
elsewhere. The names Peloponnesus, Attica, Eleusis, Megara, Delphi, 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



85 



Olympia, and Pisa, do not appear. Thus this Catalogue seems to have 
been composed before the Dorian migration into Peloponnesus, and the 
sending forth of colonies to Asia Minor and the West. 

494-644. I. Greece south of Thermopylae, with the adjoining islands, 

494-558. Boeotia, Phocis, Locris, Euboea, Athens, Salamis, The enu- 
meration proceeds from Boeotia in a northerly direction, then to the east, 
then southward, and so to the west, around Boeotia. Seven contingents ; 
262 ships. See p. viii. of the Vocabulary. 

The poet begins with Boeotia, prob. because the fleet collected at Aulis 
(303). Because of this beginning, the ancients gave the name BoKoria 
or Bouorcoi to the Catalogue of the ships. 

494^10. Boeotia, This document presents a distribution of the 
Greeks such as existed after the Trojan war. Acc. to Thuc. i. 12, the 
Boeotians lived in Thessaly until sixty years after the fall of Troy. See 
on 507. More towns are mentioned in Boeotia than elsewhere. This 
last fact may indicate not a Boeotian poet, but the extent of the culture 
and history of the country. The Thebans are not prominent in the 
action of the Iliad, Thebes is not mentioned ; see on 505. 

494 f. |Uv: correl. with 8c 511. — The five leaders are all mentioned 
elsewhere. 

496. ol Tf : refers to Boioyroiv, resumed in twv 509. — 'Yp(i|v: not far 
from Tanagra and Aulis.^ — AvXC8a : where the Achaean forces gathered 
before setting sail for Troy ; see on 339. 

496. Binewkv [©coTrias] : without a conjunction to connect it with the 
preceding, in order to mark the beginning of a new series, as 501 f., 
560 f., 647, 739. — For the sing., see § 37 rf. — Thespiae and Platea were 
the only Boeotian cities to refuse < earth and water ' to Xerxes. — ci(>ii- 
Xopov : generally of cities (with broad squares for the choral dance), as here. 
Even now in Greece the villagers assemble on the public square for their 
dances. — Freq. in Homer are three substantives so placed in a verse that 
but one has an adjective, and this adjective with its noun fills the second 
half of the verse. Cf 497, 502, 532, 551, 582, 606, 647, 739, ete. — MvKOr 
: on the road from Thebes to Chalcis. 

499. d|4l IW|iorro: dwelt about, inhabited, Cf, 521, 574, 585, 634, etc, 
— ""ApfMi: here Amphiaraus (the chief hero of the expedition against 
Seven-gated Thebes) and his chariot sank into the earth. 

502. K^iros: this town gave its name to the lake on which it 
lay. — 6£o-pi|v: Shakspere's 'Thisbe' was named for the nymph of this 
place. 

503. irok^cvra: here feminine, an adjective of two endings. Cf 
•^IwJBoarros 77 and note, dfiircXocmi 561. 



86 



COMMENTARY. 



504. rX(«-arra: at the foot of Mt. Hypatus. The decisive battle 
between the Epigoni and Thebans was said to have been fought 
there. 

505. 'Y•ro04^o« : Lower Thebes^ which lay on the plain ; in distinction 
from Seven-gated Thebes with the Cadinean citadel which was destroyed 
in the second Argive invasion by Diomed and his associates, and does 
not seem to have been rebuilt in the Homeric time. 

506. oXo^: sacred grove. In appos. with ^OyxrifrTav, cf, 592, 696. 
The name was often applied to a sacred precinct even when no grove of 
trees existed. 

507. "Apviiv: to be distinguished from the Thessalian town of the 
same name, which was the old home of the Boeotians and gave to this 
town its name. 

506. ioxAT^iMrav : at the extremity of the land, cf, 616. 

509. Wff kCov: cf, vrjoi towrrj^ A 482. — Iv Sc ^icdo^ patvov: in each 
were sailing, sc. from Aulis. See on 494 ff., p. 84. 

510. Patvov: cf 351, 611, 619. — ^Karov icrX.: prob. an unusually 
large number. 

511-516. Orchomenus, 

511. 'Opxo|&cv6v : the rich capital of the famous empire of the Minyae ; 
called Mivvaov in distinction from the Arcadian city (605). It was 
renowned for its worship of the Graces, who were said to have been first 
worshipped there. Both Orchomenus and Aspledon (a small town) lay 
near Lake Copais, on the left bank of the Boeotian Cephisus (see on 522), 
on the fertile plain of Boeotia. The realm of the Minyae did not become 
Boeotian imtil later. 

512. i{pxc : singular, although two personal subjects follow. Cf, 563, 
650, 830, 842, 844, 858, 862, 876. See H. 607. The second subject in 
many cases seems to be added as an afterthought. 

513. 86|iy : local, in the house, — ''Aicropos : i,e, Astyoche*s father. 

514. vmp&%ov : this served as the sleeping-chamber for the women. 

515. "Ap^ik : she bore to Ares, For the dative, cf 658. Ares was the 
national god of the warlike Minyae. For the long first syllable of ^Api^c, 
cf 767, 'AiroUoivos A 14. 

516. .rots : const, with the verb. tu>v might have been used with vccs, 
see § 19 e, 

517-526. The Phocians, These also may be supposed to have fitted 
out their fleet on the Euripus. 

518. I^Ctov: for this traditional form, the metre indicates the truer 
form to be l^roo, with the last syUable lengthened before the ft, (§ 59 A). 
Cf Sav (So) 325, 'AaKXrprtov ('AaicXipido) 731. See § 35 b. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



87 



519. IlvOwva : ' metaplastic ' acc. of JIv6(o. — This was the later Delphi 
(AcX^ot), seat of the Pythian oracle. The epithet irerfyi^a-auv is well 
deserved. 

520. E[pt<rav : on the plain, near the gulf of the same name. It seems 
in early times to have controUed the Pythian sanctuary. — AavXCSa: east 
of Delphi, on a hill; c/. Daulis quia in tumulo excelso sita est, 
nec scalis nec operibus capi poterat (sc. by the Romans) Livy 
xxxii. 1 8. — navomfia: burnt by the Persians under Xerxes, as was also 
Daulis. 

522. apa: further; uniting the following to form a series with the 
preceding. — Ki|^ur6v: the Cephisus takes its rise near Lilaea, on the 
north slope of Mt. Parnassus. It flows with many windings through 
Fhocis into Boeotia, and empties into Lake Copais. 

524. ofta cirovTo : accompanied. 

525. ol ^v: the two leaders mentioned 517. — dti^UcrovTcs : busily. 
For the use of the participle, see on Itav A 138. 

526. BoutrAv S* 7fiirXi|v : next the Boeotians. — Iv dpio^pd : to the left 
of the Boeotians, in the line of the ships and in the line of battle. Cf. 
iTTiStiuL 353. 

527-535. TheLocrians. 

527. 'OiXi^os: gen. of connection, with Auis. See H. 729 a, 730 a; 
G. 1085, 1. Cf. TcXafJuavuK AZas, where the adj. is equiv. to a genitive. — 
rax^: cf. celerem sequi Aiacem Hor. Carm. i. 15. 18. In the 
funeral games in honor of Patroclus, this Ajax runs a race with Odysseus 
and would have won the prize, but Athena caused him to slip. — He was 
shipwrecked and drowned on the voyage home from Troy. See § 9 c. 

528. TcXttjM&vios ACa« : cf. 557, 768, A 138. Throughout the battles 
of the Iliad the two Atavrc stand near each other and are often men- 
tioned together. 

529. 0XC70S : small, like Attic fiucpo^ which is rare in Homer. — Xtvo- 
0^pi|£ : toith linen doublet, i.e. in a closely woven, thick linen jacket which 
came down only to the hips; while the ^irtav in the common epithet 
XaXKoxCrme^ was cuirass and apron in one piece. The linen armor 
became more common in later times (see Xen. An. iv. 7. 16 of the 
Chalybes, rov Xivovv StapaKa os €in\iapuyi rjv avrots id. Cyr. vi. 4. 2). Such 
a cuirass of cocoanut fibre was the usual armor of some of the South Sea 
Islanders, and would repel a ball from a revolver or a cut from a sabre. 

530. naWXXi|va$: the Pan-Hellenes (cf. UavaxaiMv 404), only here. 
This unites under one name the peoples of Northern Greece, as ^A^axov^ 
is used of the peoples of Peloponnesus and the adjacent islands. Cf Kaff 
"EXAoSa icoi fUaov "Apyos a 344 through Hellas and the midst of Argos, as 



88 



COMMENTARY. 



including all Greece. Cf, 'from Dan to Beersheba ' Judges zx. 1, 'from 
John O'Groat's to Land's End.' 
531. ot : refers to KoKpOw 527. 

535. AoKpAv: for its position at the beginning of the verse, see on 
ovXofieinfpf A 2. — «<pi|v: opposite. — Upfjs: as A 366. The colt of Apollo 
and Artemis was especially prominent there. 

536-545. The Euhoeans. 

536. |Uvta wiCorrn : breathing courage^ i.e, inspired with courage and 
fury. — |Uvf a : pi. because of the number of men ; cf. Shakspere's 
'Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves,' Caesar iii. 2. 241. — 
wiComt [wveorresi] : cf. irtXeUro A 5. — "Apamt : pre-Hellenic Thracians 
who from the Phocian town Abae migrated to Euboea, and gave to the 
island its earlier name. 

537. XoXkCSo : the chief town of Euboea, on the strait of Euripus at 
its very narrowest part. It is separated from Boeotia by a channel so 
narrow that plans are making to blast away the rocks, in order to open 
the way for steamers of ordinary size. In the early times of Greek 
history, Chalcis exhausted its own strength by sending out colonies, — 
founding the first Greek settlement in the West (Cumae in Campania), 
and the first in Sicily (Naxos, about 735 b.c.), and sending so many 
colonies to the southern shore of Thrace as to give its name to the great 
promontory of Chalcidice. — £(pcTp(av: the later Eretria. The short 
quantity of c before rp is unusual in Homer; see § 59 g, — 'LrrCouiv: 
trisyllabic by synizesis ; see § 25 a. 

540. ^(os "Afftfot: only metaphorical in Homer. Scion of AreSy 
denoting bravery. Cf. tfcpairorres "Afnjoi 110. 

542. ^mOcv K0|&4«iKn«: see on 11. — Mark the new thoughts added in 
this sentence by the adjectives without conjunctions. 

544. This verse is composed apparently of six spondees. — Si|U»v: 
const, with (rrqStaatv. t is here pronounced as y. See on 566. 

546-558. The Athenians and Salaminians. 

546. 'AO^vas: the city here represents Attica. The promontory of 
Sunium and Marathon are mentioned in the Odyssey. — In the line of 
battle, the Athenians had the Fylians on their left and the Cephallenians 
on their right. They were not prominent in the conflicts. — lvKrC|uvov : 
cf. * Where on the Aegean shore a city stands | Built nobly, pure the air, 
and light the soil ; | Athens, the eye of Greece, mother of arts and elo- 
quence,* Milton Par. Regained iv. 238 fF. 

547. S4||iov: the country. — 'EpixOijos: originally identical with Erich- 
thonius. An old hero of Athens, of whose cult Athena herself is here 
made to be the founder. 



I 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



89 



548. Wici 8^ icrX. : parenthetical clause. Erechtheus is called yrpf^vrfi 
by Herodotus and others. The Athenians boasted that they were chil- 
dren of the soil (aurox^ovcs)* 

549. k6Z [xara]: const, with ctcrcv, cf. ova elcrcv A 310 f. — vCovt: 
fatf i,e. rich ; with reference to the votive offerings and other treasures 
stored there. — vi)f recent excavations indicate that before the Persian 
invasion, the temple of Athena on the Acropolis stood to the north of 
the Parthenon (dedicated at the great Panathenaic festival 438 b.c.), 
with foundations extending under the Hall of the Caryatides of the 
Ei'echtheum (completed about 407 b.c.). Columns and other architec- 
tural fragments of the pre-Persian Parthenon are found built into the 
wall of the Acropolis. 

550. ffcCv: i,e. Erechtheus, who was worshipped with Athena, since the 
two were considered the founders of the civilization of the country. 

551. iripiTfXXo|ilvttv : see on 295. — This then was an annual festival. 

552. ncTf«So : for Hcrcaoo, see § 35 h. The family of Peteos claimed 
descent from Erechtheus. 

553 f. 8' ov vtt icrX. : acc. to Herodotus, an ambassador of the Athe- 
nians in the time of the second Persian war referred to these verses with 
pride before Gelo, tyrant of Syracuse. But the Iliad does not elsewhere 
mention or show this skill of Menestheus. 

554. icoor|fcT|o-ai : equiv. to the Attic ra^; see § 17. Cf. Koa'fA'qTop€ 
Aauv A 16, as an epithet of the generals. The inf. is used here as an acc. 
of specification. — tinrovt : i,e, men on chariots, horses and all that went 
with them. 

555. N4o^p : see on A 247. 

557. Atat: son of Telamon. See on A 138. — SaXaiiCvof : Salamis 
forms a sort of stepping-stone in the enumeration, as the poet passes from 
Central Greece to Peloponnesus. Telamon had removed to Salamis from 
Aegina (the home of his father Aeacus), because of the murder of his 
brother. 

558. a^ttv : for the use of the participle, cf d/x,^c<n-0Krc9 525. Ajax 
here is brought into such close connection with Athens that he appears 
as a national hero of Attica. This was in accord with the later Athenian 
tradition. One of the ten tribes ((^vAm ) of Attica was named Alavrkf 
after him. 

559-644. Peloponnesus, Western Islands, Aetolia. 
559-624. Peloponnesus, 559-568. Argos, 

559. 'ApYO* ! the city, not the country. See on A 30. — rtixiWo'av : 
well walUdj lit. rich in walls, since Tiryns was famous for its walls, — the 
best known and oldest example of the so-called Cyclopean architecture. 



90 



COMMENTARY. 



These walls are thought to have been 50 or 60 feet in height, and in 
places are 20 or 25 feet thick. In the time of Antoninus Pins, they were 
declared to be as great a wonder as the Aegyptian pyramids. Excava- 
tions were conducted there by Dr. Schliemann in 1884-85, laying bare 
the plan of an extensive and elaborate structure. 

560. Kara ^oikras : which occupy, 

561. Tpoi];T|va : famous for the worship of Poseidon, and as the early 
home of Theseus. — d|fcirfX6cvra : for the form, see on iroiTjevTa 503. — 
"EniSavpov : famed for its temple of Asclepius. The theatre (built under 
the direction of the famous sculptor Polycletus, with seats and orchestra 
still well preserved), and other ruins there, were excavated during 1881 
and the following years. 

562. AXyivav: this island in very early times was conquered by 
Epidaurus. — In the eighth century b.c., it was ruled by Pheidon of 
Argos. — Kovpoi *Axcu»v: does not differ materially from vies *A^aMav 
281. 

563. fio^v d^oO^s : see on 408. — Aio|fc^Si|« : son of Tydeus. Tydeus 
was son of Oeneus of Calydon, and brother of Meleager (642) ; having 
slain some relative, he fled to Argos, where he married a daughter of King 
Adrastus (see on 572) . He fell in the first Argive expedition against 
Thebes. Diomed took part in the second expedition (that of the "Ewt- 
yovoi) against Thebes. He was one of the bravest and mightiest of the 
Achaeans before Troy. The Fifth Book is devoted to his exploits, in the 
course of which he wounds Aphrodite and (aided by Athena) even Ares. 
He has a famous meeting with Glaucus (Z 119 ft.). He visits the Trojan 
camp in company with Odysseus, and slays the Thracian Rhesus (K 
219 ff.). He reached Argos in safety at the close of the war. Diomed 
belonged to the old race of rulers in Peloponnesus (the race of Danaus 
and Perseus) who preceded Pelops and his line. 

564. 2<MvcXos : often mentioned in Homer as Oepdtrtuv and charioteer 
of Diomed. The name is a short form of 2^cvcAao9> and thus corresponds 
to ATjfjxxrOhrrjq, — KairavT|os : the most insolent of the ' Seven against 
Thebes.' He boasted that he would capture the city of Thebes, even 
though opposed by the thunderbolt of Zeus. 

566. MT|KurTT)os : brother of Adrastus, and thus great-uncle of Diomed. 

— viA9 : the first syllable is here short, the t being pronounced much like 
a y, rather than forming part of a diphthong. Cf. 544, A 489 and note. 

— ToXaiovCSao : this seems to be formed by a cumulation of sufiOxes from 
T(£Aaos. C/. §39y. 

568. oYS^Kovra : Ionic for oy&n/icovra. 
56d-580. The realm of Agamemnon, 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



91 



569. MvK^m: the residence of Agamemnon, whose reahn lay in 
Northern Peloponnesus (the latter Achaea), extending to Ells. Above 
the gate of the citadel remains the sctilptured representation of two lions, 
probably the earliest extant specimen of Greek sculpture on Greek soil. 
Near the citadel are great subterranean structures, of which the fuiest 
and largest is the soK^alled * treasure house of Atreus.' Mycenae (the sing, 
form also is used, see § 37 (/) is called by Homer cvpvayvia and Trokuxpv* 
axK, The latter epithet was shown to be justified by the discoveries in 
the excavations by Dr. Schliemann in 1876-77. See § 4 6. 

570. d^vfiov KApivBov : Corinth was made wealthy in early times by 
its trade, lying as it did between two seas. The old name was Ephyra, 
and the poet does not put the name Corinth into the mouth of his charac- 
ters. 

572. 'ASfnioTOf : king of Argos, grandfather of Diomed (see on 563). 
He was driven out of Argos by Amphiaraus, and fled to Sicyon, to his 
mother's father, whom he succeeded on the throne. He was the leader of 
the * Seven against Thebes,' and the only one of the seven who returned 
home alive. — vpora : at first, with reference to his return to Argos. 

574. ncXX^vi|v : in Achaea, about six miles from the sea. — At^iov : 
later the capital of the 12 Achaean cities. Near it was a sanctuary of 
Zeus 'Ofjuiyvpias where Agamemnon was said to have planned the expedi- 
tion against Troy, with the most honored of the Greeks. 

575. dvd : cf. dva ^fw. A 570, dva (TTparov A 10. — cvpctav : a freq. 
epithet of a country (as of Crete and the Troad) ; rarely applied as here 
to a city. 

576. rw [rovrw]: Le. the inhabitants of the cities mentioned just 
before. The gen. depends upon vrfiv, the ships of these, their ships. Cf. 
509, 685, while in 587, 610, 713, 719, vcoiv is in apposition with roiy. 

577. voXv vXcbrroi : since his kingdom was most extensive. Thus he 
had the largest force of ships himself, and could beside these lend 60 
ships to the Arcadians 610-614). The rule of Agamenmon ' over many 
islands,' implying naval power, is mentioned 108. 

578. h ti: but among them, cf. 588. See on A 142. — x<^k6v: see on 
417. 

580. oiivcKa : because, referring to fcvSiocov. — aptoros : sc. in kingly 
dignity and power, as is shown by the next verse. See A 91 and note. 

581-590. The realm of Menelaus. 

581. KifT^o-o-av: the sharply cut ravines of the mountains are one of 
the most striking characteristics of the Spartan landscape. 

584. 'A|&vicXci« : this was one of the most important Laconian cities 
before the Dorian conquest, and long maintained its independence, by 



92 



COMMENTARY. 



the side of Sparta. — *'EXos : a city on the coast from which the name 
helot was said to be derived, since its inhabitants were enslaved by the 
Spartans. 

585. A&av : for the name, cf, * Stonehamf* * Stonington.' 

586. ot : for Aim, Aw. 

587. vcwv : in appos. with rciiv, see on 576. — AirdrcpOc : sc, from the 
troops of Agamemnon. This marks the political independence of Mene^ 
laus. 

588. Iv 8^: as 578. — vpoOv|fc£t|0't miroiO^: for the long penult of 
TTpoOvfugaty see § 59 h. The pi. is used because of the many occasions 
on which his zeal had prompted him to act. 

589. iroXtfitf v8c : to the battle. iroXc/xo? is often used in Homer as 
synonymous with liAxq- — : local, as A 24. 

590 = 356. 

591-602. The forces of Nestor. 

591. ILiiKny : Messenian Pylus, on a harbor that is well protected by 
the island Sphacteria. During the Peloponnesian war (425 b.c.) the 
Athenians established themselves here and held the position for 15 years. 
In this harbor (then called Navarino), Oct. 20, 1827, the Turkish fleet 
was nearly annihilated, and the Greek war for independence was virtually 
decided. — The realm of Nestor was founded by his father Neleus (son 
of Poseidon), who had been driven from lolcos in Thessaly by his brother 
Pelias (cf 715). 

592. irdpov : ford. In apposition with 0pix>v, cf 0X0*09 506. 

594. |M>{Nrai : for the plural, see on 484. 

595. Tov 6fW|iKa: that Thracian. For the use of the article, cf A 11. 
The Thracian bards, Orpheus, Musaeus, Eumolpus, etc., who were called 
the fathers of Greek poetry, did not live in historic Thrace but in Pieria, 
in Southern Macedonia, on the east slope of Olympus. Thence the wor- 
ship of the Muses was brought to Helicon and Parnassus. — Thamyris is 
here thought of as wandering after the manner of the later bards (dotSoe) 
and visiting the courts of the princes. 

597. #ct\. : he asserted hoastfvlly that he would he the victor. — 
cvx^iMvos : for the partic. of manner, see on Im A 138. — ct ircp av : even 
granted that, supposing that. Here alone is av found, instead of kck, with 
ci and the opt., cf. A 60; see § 18 p. The form in direct discourse 
would be viKiljarajLfu £v, ei ircp &v avrot funkrai diSouv. 

598. KoGpoi ktX. : cf 491 f . 

599. irqp6v: maimed, here prob. miUe (cf 595), though a later tradi- 
tion represented him as blind. — avrclp kt\. : this states the result of their 
action, although elsewhere avrdp is used to introduce something new. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



93 



600. IkX/^oOov : sc, fuv. Reduplicated aorist, used transitively. Only 
here construed like a verb of depriving, with two accusatives. 

603-614. The Arcadians. The Arcadians are not mentioned as taking 
part in any of the conflicts before Troy. They may be thought of as 
closely connected with (or included among) the forces of Agamemnon. 

603. i\ov: cf. *0\vfi7ria ^fwr Ixovrc^ A 18. — viro opo«: up under 
the mountain. 

604. AlvvTiov : of Aepytus. For the use of the adj., see on 'SjjXrjtta 20. 
Aepytus, son of Flatus, was an old Arcadian hero whose descendants 
reigned long in Arcadia. His mound, which in the time of the early 
Roman emperors still rested on its circle of stones, reminds scholars of 
the German graves of the Huns. — tva: sc, tixriv. For the omission of 
the copula in a rel. clause, cf. A 547. 

605. 'Opxo|uv6v: to be distinguished from Minyan Orchomenus 511. 

608. Srv|i^Xov : famous lor its lake (which has a subterranean chan- 
nel that comes to the surface and empties into the sea near Argos), and 
for the labor of Heracles in killing the birds here. 

610 f . Iv vul ict\. : cf. 509. 

614. OoXdcro-ta Ip^a : cf woXefiijui ipya 338. — Arcadia, alone of the 
countries of Peloponnesus, touched the sea at no point. Cf. praetor 
Achaeorum [Philopoemen] . . . rudis in re navali erat. Areas, 
mediterraneus homo, Livy xxxv. 26. 

615-624. TheEleans. 

615. Bovirp^tov : the < whole and part ' are often thus united, cf 632, 
• Peter and the Apostles,* Acts v. 29. 

616. oo-o-ov k^' : i.e. c<^' oaarov. Const, with cktos ccpyct encloses, 
bounds. Lit. to as far, i.e. as far as. Cf. T 12. 

620. tj7t|o-do-et|v : took the lead. Aor. as 678, 864, 867, 870. Cf. ^pxe 
was leader. 

621. o jiiv : i.e. Amphimachus. — Evpvrov : not to be confounded with 
Eurytus of 596. — 'AicTopCovc : here of the grandsons of Actor. See § 39 m. 

624. AvY*|i^Sao: Augeas was the king of Elis whose stables have 
become proverbial. See on 660. 

625-644. The Western Islands and Aetolia. 625-630. Dulichium. 

625. ot : sc. rj<rav. — The poet places Dulichium and the other Echi- 
nades (which lie off the mouth of the Achelous) far to the south of their 
real position, off the coast of Elis. — Upd»v : the position of the adj. indi- 
cates that it is to be construed with 'E;(tma)v, with which vrjaruiv is in 
apposition. 

626. vaCovo-i : lie, lit. dwell. — ir^pT|v a\6s : i.e. separated from Elis by 
the sea. 



94 



COMMENTARY. 



629. : i.e, Phyleus. — irarpC : t.«. King Augeas. 
631-637. The forces of Odysseus. 

631. Kf^aXXifvas : the common name for the subjects of Odysseus. 

632. ^ : namely, to toil. The relative sentences are yirtually in appos. 
with Kc<^aAA7Ka9< — *I0dicf|v koI N^pirov: see on BovTrpcurtov 615. — clvoo-C- 
^XXov : lit. leaf-shaking, as if the mountain caused what it suffered. 

635. Tiircipov : refers to Leucadia and Acarnania, which were conquered 
by Laertes. — drrtirlpcua: neut. adj. as substantive. The opposite coast in 
Elis where the Ithacans had herds. Odysseus himself had on the main- 
land twelve herds of cattle, as many flocks of sheep and of goats, and as 
many droves of swine. 

636. 'OSvo-o-cipt : see on A 138. — Atl ictX: Odysseus is freq. called 
TToKvpirfn^ and irokvpri^vfK. 

637. Sik&ScKa: a small number m comparison with the 40 ships of 
Dulichium, 630, or the 80 ships of Diomed,* 568. The same number of 
Odysseus's ships is mentioned in the Odyssey. See § 9 c?. — luXroirdp^ot : 
red-€heeked. Their bows (cheeks) were painted with vermilion. On the 
other hand, cf 170 and i 482, where the ship of Odysseus is called 
Kvavoirpwpoi dark-prowed. — The forces of Odysseus are the fifteenth in 
the enumeration of the 29 contingents. Corresponding to this position, 
these ships are said to be at the middle of the line. 

638-644. The Aetolians, 

640. KaXvSiSva : on a shoulder of Mt. Aracynthus. It was famed for 
the Calydonian Hunt of the boar that was killed at last by Meleager. 

641. 7Ap: introduces the explanation why Thoas was in command, 
and not Oeneus or one of his distinguished sons, Tydeus (see on 563) or 
Meleager. — ifcrav : were living, 

642. airds : ue. Oeneus. — (av06s : see on T 284. — McX^a^pos : the most 
distinguished of the sons of Oeneus. 

643. Tip : I.e. Thoas. — kiri : construe with ctctoXto. — iravra : everything, 
explained by avaa-crifjijev in apposition with it ; i.e. the whole command. — 
AlrwXoto-iv : dative of interest, cf A 180, 231. 

645-680. II. The islands in the southern part of the Aegean sea. 
645-652. The Cretans. 

645. KpT|rwv : this includes all the mixed population of the extensive 
island. — The cities here mentioned all lay in the interior of the island, 
at the foot of Mt. Ida. — *ISo|mvc^: see on 405. 

646. KvMo-dv: the principal city of the island. — r6f>rvva: the Cretan 
city next to Cnosus in importance. Here in 1884 was discovered a long 
inscription (probably of the fifth century B.C.) containing a code of laws. 
— Tiixtdco-crav : cf, 559. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



95 



647. M(Xi|Tov : this city gave colonists and name to the Ionian Mile- 
tus. — &pYiv6cvTa : cretosum, chalky, as 656. The town was situated on 
chalk cliffs. 

648. #aurr6v: southwest of Gortyna; birthplace of the poet and 
prophet Epimenides. There half of the ships of Menelaus were wrecked. 

649. aXXoi : made prominent before the rel. clause. — ^KaT6|fciroXiv : a 
round number, cf, 449. Cf, centum urbes habitant magnas, 
uberrima regna Verg. Aen. iii. 106. 

650. apa : recurs to 645. 
65a-670. The Rhodians, 

653. Tf lU^os Tf : two essential qualities of a hero ; see on fieyas 
816. 

655. 8id : const, with KoafirfOevre^, divided in three parts. The Rho- 
dians dwelt acc. to tribes (Kara(^vXa8ov, 668), in their three cities. Pin- 
dar tells in greater detail the story of the settlement of the island, and 
calls it rpvjroXi'S vacros* 

656. ACvSov : famed for its worship of Athena and Heracles. From 
this name came that of Lincoln (Lindum colonia). 

658. This episode is intended for the glorification of the Rhodians. — 
pCti 'HpaicXT|cCt| : periphrasis for all cases of 'HpcucXeip, which was not 
suited to the verse. For the periphrasis, cf, 851, T 105 ; see § 16 d, 

659. "E^^9 : the seat of King Augeas (see on 624). 

660. v4pa-us : sc. when he made his expedition against Augeas to 
avenge the wrong done him in withholding the reward for cleansing the 
stables. 

661. rpd^c : intransitive, grew up. Construe with iireC, when he had 
grown up, — M I^Y^pip : i.e, in his father's house at Tiryns. — kvl : for the 
length of the final i before the following fi, see § 59 A. 

662. avrCKa: refers to the preceding €ir€t kt\, — +(Xov : evidently only 
as a standing epithet here. — y.i\Tp»a: brother of Alcmena, son of Alec- 
tryon. — Karticra: *in a burst of anger,' says Pindar; by accident, acc. 
to another tradition. 

663. ^(ov "ApTios : see on 540. 

664. S yt : for its position in the second member of the sentence, see 
on r 409. 

665. Pvi ^iryttv : set out in flight, cf, 71 ; see on A 391. The participle 
indicates the manner of his going ; — as a fugitive, since he feared the 
vengeance of the relatives. * A life for a life,' was the old Greek law ; 
but sometimes a fine was paid. Flight from the country was fre- 
quent, as in the case of Tydeus (see on 563), and of Patroclus (see on 
A 307). 



96 



COMMENTARY. 



667. If PdSov l(cv: this is an anachronism. Even the Dorian migra- 
tion into Peloponnesus followed the fall of Troy by 80 years. — oX^ca 
vdirxttv : tuith sorrow. Const, with aXiafuvo^. 

668. TpixOA : cf. rpC^ 665 ; see § 30 t. — Karo^vXaSdv : equiy. to kotol 
4nj\a 362. See on 655. 

669. Ik Ai^ : see on 33. 

670. KaC o-^iv icrX. : an independent sentence illustrating x^rfttv. — 
Karfxcvc: poured down upon them. This indicates the abundance of 
their wealth. This expression seems to have given rise to the later myth 
that Zeus literally rained gold upon the island. 

671-675. The forces of Nireus. The smallest contingent of all. 

671. Ntpc^f : mentioned only here in Homer. He is celebrated as a 
pattern of beauty. Lucian invents a dialogue between him and Thersites. 
— For the repetition of his name (* epanalepsis *), cf 838, 850, 871 ; see 
§ 16 b. Such repetitions served to chain the attention of the hearer. — 
2v|AT|0cv : a small island, off the Carian coast, north of Rhodes. A Dorian 
colony like the islands of 676 ff. 

672. The names of Nireus's parents are significant. 

673. KdXXioTos : predicate. See on 216. 

674. oXXmv : see on A 505. 

675. aXairaSvds : the opposite of fcparepos. 
676-^680. The Sporades, 

676. KpdiraOov : Kap^ra^, cf KopSirf and KpaSirf, See § 31. Carpathus 
is an island between Rhodes and Crete which gave its name to the Carpa- 
thian sea. 

677. K»v: elsewhere Kom in Homer. An island off Cnidus and 
Halicarnassus. — Evpvu^Xoio : king of Cos. He was slain by Heracles on 
the latter's return from Troy. His daughter Chalciope bore to Heracles 
a son Thessalus, 679. — KaXiiSvci«: small islands near Cos. 

678. #c(Siinros, "Avn^os : not mentioned elsewhere in the Iliad. 
680 = 516. 

681-759. III. Northern Greece, See on 494 ff., p. 84. 
681-694. The forces of AchUles, 

681. vvv av : but now; a transition to the forces of Northern (Thessa- 
lian) Greece. This verse forms a general prelude and announcement 
for what follows. — ro^ : €p4(o hovers before the mind, cf, 493. — t6 : 
dem., that, — IIcXao^iKov "Apyos : i,e, Thessaly. See on A 30. Thes- 
saly is represented as being more important in Homeric than it was 
in historical times. 

683. #0£i|v : home of Peleus and Achilles, cf A 169. In the valley of 
the Spercheiis. — KoXXi-yvyauKa : this epithet appears only in the accusa- 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



97 



tive. The inflection of the adjective seems to be attracted to that of the 
noun ywij. 

684. M«p|u86vft: cf, A 180, 328. 

685. T»v: see on 576. — ircKHjKovra: Achilles arranged his men in 
five divisions ^ith five conmianders. Each of his ships was manned 
by 50 men, who (like all the rest) on their arrival at Troy served as 
soldiers. 

686. iroXf|M>io Svoi|x^^* ^* fremituqae sequuntur | horri- 
sono Verg. Aen, ix. 54 f. 

687. ov 7op ictA.. : for there was no one, etc. — kv\ rrlxus : into ranks, so 
as to form ranks. — iiYn<''w>To : potential opt. without av, after ov yap kt\. 

688. Iv v^ccro-i : ue. in the camp. See on A 12. 

689. KoiipT|s : causal genitive, cf. 694 ; see on A 65. — Bpi^CSos : see 
on A 184, 348. 

690. {(cCXfTo : i.e. received as his yipas cjocpcrov. See on A 124. 

691. Avpin^v6v : Brise'is tells of its capture and destruction, T 290 ff. 
See on A 125. — e^pift : see on A 366. 

692. KoS 8' {paXcv : a change to the finite const., after the participle 
Sunropdi^i. Cf. r 80 ; see § 11 /. — M^virra : king of Lymessus, and 
(acc. to the later story) husband of Brise'is. 

694. rdxa: Achilles is reconciled with Agamemnon, goes forth to 
battle, and kills Hector, on the 27th day of the action of the Iliad, five 
days after the events narrated in this Second Book. See § 7 9. 

695-710. The forces of Protesilaus. 

695. ropcurov: named from the wheat (jrvpoi) which abounded in 
the region. — av6c|iAcvra : see on 503. 

696. A^|fcf|Tpos W|Mvos: consecrated field of Demeter. In apposition 
with Uvpaxrov, cf. 506, 592. This afterwards gave to Pyrasus the name 
Atffiifrpiay. — |fci|Wpa |fc<tf|X«»v : Mt. Ida is called firirrfp OrfpStv, 47. 

697. ifxUkkov : this epithet would fit the other cities also. — Xcx<^^^v : 
grass-bedded, grassy. 

698. np«rrco-(Xaos : he was the first to fall in the war. The name is 
significant, cf. 702. High honors were paid to him at Elaeus in the 
Thracian Chersonese, down to the time of the Persian wars. His ship 
was the centre of the fiercest conflict when Hector forced his way to the 
ships of the Greeks, and it was half consumed by fire before Patroclus 
appeared with the Myrmidons, and repulsed the Trojans. See § 7 m, n. 

699. ix%v icdra kt\. : held down, covered. He was in the realm and 
power of the dark earth. 

700. a|i4i8fn44s : women tore their faces in mourning. — ^vXdiqg : dat. 
of place. 



98 



COMMENTARY. 



701. ijiuTiX^s : half-finished. He left home for the war before he could 
complete his house. He had hardly begun life for himself when he was 
killed. — AdpSavos av^p : a Dardanian toarrwr, Acc. to. the later ampli- 
fied form of the story, this was Hector ; but Homer does not call any 
Trojan AapSdm, though the Dardanians were included among the 
Tpwcs. 

703. ovSc |uv ov8j kt\, : as 726. The repetition of the negative gives 
it great weight. The first negative belongs to the whole sentence, the 
second is to be construed closely with oc, — neque vero ne hi quidem. 
— irdOctf V 7€ |M V [fw/v] : lit. they missed him indeed^ equiv. to /cat ito^ovktcs 
TTcp dpxov. The word before yc /uev is made prominent and always forms 
an < adversative asyndeton' (see § 15 c). The English idiom introduces 
such a clause by yety but. — opx6v : i.e. their former leader. 

704. a-^as : monosyllabic, see § 25. — no8apicT|s : leader of the Phthi- 
ans. 

705. #^XaK(Sao: with u, but ^Xwcfj 700; cf. HpldfttSi/s 817 with 
Hpca/ioi^r 146; see § 59 e. 

707. irptopos : cf. Trpoycvcorcpos 555. 

708 f . Only another form of 703. — ov8^ xi : but in nothing. 

711-715. The kingdom of Eumelus. 

711 f . #cp^, BoCpi)v ktK. : cities on the peninsula of Magnesia and in 
the southeastern part of Pelasgiotis. — <irapa( : for the locative ending, cf. 
W824. 

712. 'Ia«»XK6v : famed as the chief seat of the Thessalian Minyae (see 
on 511), the capital of King Pelias, and the native city of Jason, the 
leader of the Argonautic expedition. 

714. i5ir* 'ASu^Tv: const, with tcVc, cf. 728, 742, 820. — For the repe- 
tition of the name, cf. 636, 655, 691. 

715. "AXicfio^s: her devotion to her husband, which led her to die 
for him, became proverbial. This death is the theme of the Alcestis of 
Euripides. 

716-728. The forces of Philoctetes. 

718. Tw 8^ : antecedent of ot 8c 716. When the relative clause pre- 
cedes, the apodosis often has 8c, as here.— t6{mv cl8^: as 720 and 
freq., o78a am skilled in is followed by the genitive. 

719. Ip^rat : the warriors were the oarsmen. 

720. l|AP^Pao-av : had embarked ; see on 351, 509. The preposition is re- 
peated in cv kKoxTTrj. — t^t itdxcaOcu: infinitive of result, so as to (so that 
they could) fight, etc. See on A 8. 

722. A^ifcvy : the Achaeans landed at I^emnos on their voyage to Troy 
and received hospitality from King Euneiis. They sent slaves thither 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



99 



for sale, and received wine thence. — The repetition of the preposition 
gives to cv Ai^fivw some independence from cv vi/cra). 

723. oXod^povof vSpov : construe with SAxet, ablatival genitive, from 
the cruel water^nake. See on 396. The wound not only disabled Philoc- 
tetes but rendered his presence odious to his comrades. 

724. rdxa 8c icr\. : the Catalogue contains several such references to 
events which do not fall within the time of the action of the Iliad, cf. 
690 ff ., 699 ff. — A prophet declared that Troy could be taken only with 
the help of the arrows of Heracles that Philoctetes had in his possession. 
Acc. to Sophocles in his tragedy Philoctetes, the hero was brought from 
Lenmos to Troy by Odysseus .and Neoptolemus (son of Achilles). No 
other allusion to this story is found in the Homeric poems. Philoctetes 
reached home in safety at the close of the war. See § 9 a. 

725. 'AfrycCoi vapd vi|vo-( : parenthetical, in a kind of apposition with 
the subject of ^ficAXoi'. — ^iXoKT^roo : construe with fin^crAu. 

726 = 703. 

727. 'OiXi|Os : father of the lesser Ajax, 527. 

728. ^ : points back to the preceding verse, cf. 650, 742. 
729-733. Fwces of the Asclepiads, 

729. TpCKicf|v ictX.: cities in Western Thessaly, in Hestiaeotis. At 
Tricca was one of the oldest sanctuaries of Asclepius, and the home of 
the king. — KX«|&aK6ccrcrav : it lay on the steep slopes of Mt. Pindus. 

731. 'Ao-icXtrirlov : better written as 'Ao-kXi/itioo. See on 518. 
734-737. Forces of Eurypylus. 

735. XcvKd KdpT|va: gleaming heights, lit. white heads; cf 739. See on 
117. 

738-747. The forces of Pdypoetes. 

738 f . "ApY^vAv icrX : cities of the Lapithae (see on A 263), in the 
western part of what was Perrhaebia in later times. 

739. 'OXooo^va: the most important city in Perrhaebia. — vdXiv 
XcvK^v : sc. because of its chalk clifb. 

741. IIcipiMoio : see on A 263. 

742. icXvt6« : as feminine. See on 77. 

743. ^iiari 6t% : see on 351. — ^po« : see on A 268. 

744. IItiXCov : Mt. Pelion, south of , Mt. Ossa, was celebrated in 
mythology as the home of the centaurs, esp. of Cheiron (Sucaioraros 
Kcvravpw) who trained the youthful Achilles. 

745. ovK otos: construe with i/yc/Aovcvc 740. — £|mi icrX. : no 
conj. connects this with ov/c o7o9, since it is in a kind of apposition with 
it (see § 15 &), expressing more fully the thought of the first words of 
the verse (see on ovXo/Acnp A 2). 



100 



COMMENTARY. 



746. ^pMfMio : in a laudatory sense. — KoivclSoo : cf, A 264. 
748-755. Aenianians and Perrhaebiaru. 

750. oUf l9frro : buUt their homes, 

751. on the banks of. — Ifpifa: tUled Jidds. 

753. &^yvpo8(iq| : silver-eddying , because of the white waves and eddies 
of the turbid Peneiis, where the clear Titaresius empties its stream into 
it. The swift current makes it possible to disting^oish for a time the 
waters of the two streams. 

754. AXXd Tf: see on A 82. — ijfr IXcuov: refers to the water of the 
one stream flowing above the other. 

755. ^pKov Scivov: explained by its appos. Srvyos. — This introduces 
a mythical explanation that gives a miraculous quality to the water. — 
Znryds : limits v&iro9. — fStiropp6( : branch of the water of the Styx, as the 
Cocytus also is said to be. This mysterious connection with the Styx 
(a stream with a high fall, in Arcadia) was imagined prob. because of its 
violent current. 

756-759. The Magnesians, 

757. ni|vfi6v: the most important river of Thessaly. It flows into 
the sea through the beautiful vale of Tempe, between Mts. Olympus and 
Ossa. 

758. npdOoofi Oo6f : the poet puns upon the name, see § 13 c. 
760-785. Conclusion of the Catalogue of the Achaean forces. 

760. C/. 487. 

761. tC« t apa: cf A 8. — ^x' o^urros: see on A 69. — cwcirt: see on 
484. 

762. avrwv kt\. : cf 466. — fya lirorro : cf A 158. 

763. ^ya : adv., see on A 78. — *i||n|TiA8ao : Admetus. Cf 713 ff. 
Or this name may be given to Pheres's grandson Eumelus, see on 621. In 
the funeral games in honor of Patroclus, these mares of Eimielus would 
have won the race but for an accident. — This statement is subject to 
qualification below, o<^p' 'A^iAcvs fu/mv 769, 764-767 being parenthetical. 

764. 'E^|Ai|Xos: see 714. — iro8^Kcci«: this and the following epithets 
are attracted to the construction of the relative clause. — opviOci« : for the 
length of the last syllable, see on kokov cSs 190. 

765. o^a^vXtl ^to"a« : like to a plumb line, " straight as an arrow." — 
<irl vMTOv : along, over the back, cf 308. 

766. 4v ni)p€£t|: prpb. the region of Pherae where Apollo served 
Admetus as herdsman. Angry at the death of Asclepius, Apollo had 
killed the Cyclopes of Zeus, and as a punishment was sent to serve a 
mortal. See Euripides's Alcestis, ad init. Apollo retained his interest 
in these mares. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



101 



767. ^Pov ktK. : the flight of Ares attends tliem. For the ablatiyal 
genitive, see on 396. ^jSos in Homer does not mean mere fright, see 
§17. 

768. av: marking the contrast with iinroc fjuev 763; cf aZrt A 237, 
a{rrdp A 51, 127, 333. 

770. tinroi : these were immortal steeds, sired by Zephyrus, and given by 
Poseidon to Peleus. — ^pcco-Kov: drew; the Homeric heroes did not ride 
on horseback. Thus unroc often stands for horses and chariots. Cf 554. 

771. Iv Wjco-o-i : cf 688 f. This noun receives the epithets of ships, 
although it means camp here. 

772. diro|fci)v£crci« : giving vent to his wrath away (diro) from the battle- 
field. Equiv. to dirc<tfv /itfvums* 

773. XaoC : in contrast with 6 fitv 771, their leader. 

774. SCo>Kouriv : this contest was not unlike the modem < putting the 
shot.' The prize was given to him who hurled the discus furthest. — 
alYCLvf t|<riv : dat. of means with lerrcs* 

775. irap' ap|&ao-iv : ue. where they had been tied when released from 
the yoke; in contrast with v^' apfuun, where the horses are under the 
yoke before the chariot, — Ikootos : appositive, as A 606. 

776. IXc60pcirrov : grown on moist meadows. — The Homeric horses were 
fed on \wrov (clover), crcXtvw (a kind of parsley), Kvirtipav (a fragrant 
marsh plant), and on Kpi Xcv/cov (white barley), irvpos (wheat), and oXvpai 
or iam (spelt). 

111. cv imrvKoo^'va : well covered, AVfoy from the dust. — kcIto : lay. 
When chariots were out of use, their wheels were sometimes removed. 
But K€ifjuu is often perf . pass, of riOrffu. — dvoicTwv : of the masters (const, 
with fyfjuoLTo). — Le. Achilles and his lieutenants (see on 685). The Xaol 
did not fight d(^* Ttnrtav. 

778. ol 8^: i.e. the Aaoe and dvoxrcs. — iroOcovrcs: cf 703. 

779. ^Crttv [i<f>oCr(iov, €<f>oCriov] kt\. : wandered to and fro. 

780. Return to the narrative which was interrupted by the Cata- 
logue (484). But while, at 476, the leaders are busy in arranging their 
troops, here they are represented as already moving forward for the 
attack. — ol 8c: i.e. the Achaeans. — «s cC tc ktX.: as if the earth were 
devoured (lit. pastured off) by fire. The opt. is used to express a mere 
conception of the mind. The comparison relates to the gleam of the 
armor and weapons, cf 455 ff. 

781. " The earth trembled as from an earthquake." — Ail aSs: sc. (rre" 
vaxZci, groaned as it groans under Zeus, under the power of Zeus, xnro 
mxrcri 784 corresponds to this. — Ait : for the length of the ultima, see on 
opvtBas 764, and cf Act 636. 



102 



COMMENT ABY. 



782. x *^ ¥^^ ' in his wrath." An instance of the exhibition of this 
anger follows. — tc : with hypothetical subjonctiye. — Tv^Wi: a 
mighty giant, symbol of volcanic power. He opposed Zeus, but was 
OTercome by the thonderbolt, and was buried under a mountain. From 
this he belches forth fire. When he attempts to rise, he causes earth- 
quakes; then Zeus smites with his lightning the earth about Typhoeus^ Le, 
the earth, that which covers him. Pindar, in his first Pythian ode, rep- 
resents the monster as lying under Mt. Etna, and extending to Mt. Vesu- 
vius. — Cf. ' In bulk as huge | As whom the fables name of monstrous 
size, I . . . Briareos [A 403] or Typhon, whom the den | By ancient Tar- 
sus held,' Milton Par. Lost i. 196 S. 

783. civ 'ApCfMit : in the land of the Aritnij in Cilicia. This belongs to 
the so-called 'earthquake belt.' Cf, durumque cubile | Inarime 
lovis imperiis imposta Typhoeo Yerg. Aen. ix. 715 f. — cvvus: 
couch. 

784. Cf. scuta sonant pulsuque pedum conterrita tellus 
Verg. i4cn. vii. 722. 

785. SUvpi|ovov: intrans., advanced. — mSCoio: local gen., on the 
plain; cf. 801. The aoc. is used with no essential difference of meaning, 
A 483. 

786-877. The forces of the Trojans. 

786. voS^vciftot : Iris is dcXXoiros storm-footed. — Ma [cMcctd] : for the 
inflection, see § 38 &. 

787. inip Ai4f : const, with ^X^c 

788. oyopdt aydpcvov: were holding an assembly, cf iroXxfwv voSxiU' 
{civ r 435. — M npu4ioio O^pno-iv: at the gates of Priam; i.e. before 
the palace, where acc. to oriental custom the king sat in judgment. 
Cf. 'Judges and officers shalt thou make thee in all thy gates,' Dent. 
xvi. 18. 

789. irdvTff : i.e. all the nobles. It is limited by the circumstances of 
the case. — No special PovXi^ (cf. 53) of the Trojans is mentioned. 

790. irpoo^^ : sc. fuv (referring to Priam), as 172. Cf. 795. 

791. ^oyy^v : at first only the similarity of voice receives prominence, 
in close connection of thought with irpoa-tifnf. But here, as in the other 
cases, a transformation of the whole person is to be assumed; hence 
iturafiivrj 795 without the addition of <l>Ooyyijv. The contents of the 
speech, however, cause Hector to recognize the goddess, 807: 

792. iroSwKcC^cri ktX. : eqiiiv. to iroa-l KpaiirvoUn ireimBm. For the 
plural, cf. trpoOvfuyai 588. 

793. T^^fUf ktX. : on the top of the mound. This mound of Aesyetes 
was at the extremity of the ridge south of Ilium Novum. 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



103 



794. 8fy|Mvos oirirdrf : exspectans dum, generally followed by the 
aorist optative. — vav^tv : ablatival genitive with d<^pfii;^cicv. For the 
form, see § 33 a. 

795. Tip |uv {cto-diicvii : cf, 22. — |iCv : i.e. Priam. Construe with irpoa- 
€Kt^rj. — This verse repeats the sum of 790 f., because of the interposed 
clauses. 

796. aUC TOi: cf. A 107, 177, 541. --+(Xoi : predicate. — fiKptroi : cf. 
246. — Iris blames Priam's untimely unconcern. 

797. ir6Xc|jLo$ 8c kt\. : contrast (paratactic, § 21 d) with iv elpijvrfi in 
time of peace. — oXCcurros : cf. 420. 

798. W|: equiv. to ^817. — iroXXd: cognate accusative with cioi^Xv^oi^. 
It does not differ greatly from iroXXdjci^. 

799. Cf. 120. 

800. loiKdrct: sc. in number. Cf. 468.-0/ «I will multiply thy 
seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon the sea- 
shore,' Genesis xxii. 17. — i^ : in a comparison where the poet leaves the 
choice open. 

801. irporl &m> : const, with tpx^avrai. 

802. *^KTop: Iris turns to address Hector as the conmiander-in-chief, 
on whom above all others ' depends the weal of the state. — W: for the 
order of words, see on A 282. — «S8^ 7c : const, with pe£ai. It refers to 
what follows. 

803. iroXXol icrX. : explanatory preparation for 805. For the thought, 
cf. 130 f . 

805. Touriv: to these. Antec. of the following relative. No con j. is 
used to connect this with what has preceded, since this is in a kind of 
appos. with cSSc yc pe^oi. For the dative, cf. Tpoxri 810. Each is to give 
orders to his countiymen, as usual. This indicates the separation into 
tribes (accomplished 815) corresponding to that of the Greeks, 362 f . 

806. T»v 8* {(ifYcCo'Ow : and let him lead these forth, sc. from the city 
to the field of battle. — iroXt^rci« : his fellow-dtizens ; equiv. to olcrt irep 
SipX^ This measure is intended esp. for the great nimiber of Trojan 
allies. 

807. ov Ti kt\. : by no means failed to recognize (i.e. he recognized 
clearly) the speech of the goddess, he recognized the goddess herself. For 
the • litotes,' see on A 220, § 16 c. 

808. M rt^xta : to fetch their arms; like Attic fura revx&i. 

809. irao-ai irvXcu: the whole gate, — the Scaean or Dardanian gates, 
leading from the city to the plain. Homer does not mention any other 
gates of the city. — ^rvAoi is always plural in Homer, of one gate with 
two wings or doors. 



104 



COMBiENTARY. 



811. U Tit: a favorite Epic beginning of a description, ef. urbs 
antiqua fuit Yerg. Aen. i. 12. — v6Xvo«: disyllabic bysynizesis; see 
§ 25. The ultima is long before the caesural pause ; see § 59 /. 

812. dirdvcvOf : asidCy sc. from the principal road. — ircpC8po|&os : i.e. 
free-lying, lying in an open place. — Ma ktX, : see on 397. 

814. dOdvatoi ktX.: for the language of the gods, see on A 403. — 
o^|ia : such a tomb as that of 604. — voXvo-KdpOi&oto : agile, sc, in battle. 

— Mvplmfs : perhaps one of the Amazons mentioned T 189. 

815. SUKptOiv: see on 805; cf. 475 f. 

816-877. The Trojans and their Allies. The force opposed to the 
Achaeans is composed of sixteen contingents : I. five contingents from 
Trojan pec^les (816-839), and II. eleven contingents of allies {eirUovpoL, 
840-877). Of the allies, three divisions come from Europe, and eight 
from Asia. I. Trojans from (a) Ilios, Qi) Dardania, (c) Zelea, (d) 
Adrastea, {e) Percote etc. ; II. Allies (from Europe), (a) Thracians, 
Qji) Ciconians, (c) Paeonians; (from Asia), (a) Pelasgians, (6) Paphla- 
gonians, (c) Halizonians, {d) Mysians, (e) Phrygians, (/) Maeonians, 
{g) Carians, (K) Lydians. 

The catalogue of the Trojans is far less exact and detailed than that 
of the Achaeans; it contains no definite statements of number. The 
total number of Trojans and allies was 50,000, acc. to ® 562 f . : < A thou- 
sand fires were kindled on the plain, and by each sat fifty men.* Of 
these about 12,000 were Trojans, if 123-130 are to be interpreted liter- 
ally. 

816-839. The Trojans. 

816. Tp«MrC : in the narrower sense, the inhabitants of the city *IXtos. 

— lifyos: of stature. The Greeks were prone to believe that no man 
could be physically small, while mentally great. Cf. 653. — KopvOaCoXos : 
helmet-waving, a mark of martial activity, cf. et cristam adverso 
curru quatit aura volantem Verg. -4en. xii. 370. 

817. irXctflTTot ktX : i.e. as the flower of the whole army. 

818. lufiodrfs: striving forward with the lance, i.e. eager for the 
fray. 

819. AopSavCttv: adj. as subst. ; "inhabitants of the district Dar- 
dania." Dardanus was grandfather of Tros, who gave his name to the 
district TpoCtf (162, T 74) ; while Tros in tm-n was the father of Ilus, 
who gave his name to the city ^iXios and was father of Laomedon and 
grandfather of Priam. See p. x. of the Vocabulary. The Dardanians 
are second in rank to the Trojans. Elsewhere they are called AapSavoi. 
They are also called Aap&ivtWc$, and the women are called Aop&iviSc?. 
The name is preserved in the modern * Dardanelles.' — avn : correl. with 



SECOND BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



105 



fUv 816, see on 768. — 'AyxUrao: Anchises is nowhere referred to by 
Homer as alive at the time of this war. 

820. AlvcCas : the hero of the Aeneid. He is a third cousin of Hector. 
He was severely wounded by Diomed, but was rescued by his mother 
Aphrodite, and healed by Apollo in his temple ; he led one of the bat- 
talions against the wall of the Achaeans; he met Achilles, and would 
have been slain by him, but for the intervention of Poseidon, who saved 
him that the race of Dardanus might not be entirely destroyed. See p. x. 
of the Vocabulary. — 'A<^po8Cti) : for the short first syllable, see § 59 ^ a. 

821. Iv Kvi||fcot(ri: ue, where Anchises had charge of the herds and 
herdsmen. It was one of the patriarchal customs of those times that 
kings and kings' sons tended their flocks on the slopes of the mountains. 

— 9cd PpoTcp : note the * antithesis.' 

822. &^arify€ : c/. 745. 

823. luCx^ vdon|«: every kind of hattley — on foot or in the chariot, 
with lance or sword. For the gen., see on 718, 

824. U : for the short vowel before following {, cf, o before Sica/iai^ 
^puw in 465. — Z^Xciav: on (ihe frontier of Mysia. — viraC: cf, mfxu 711. 

— v6Sa vcCarov : t.c. the northern slope. For the ace, cf, 603. 

825. &^vcioC : sc, because of the well-tilled farms. — ir£vovT€« kt\, : this 
expression was often imitated. Cf. exsul | aut Ararim Parthus 
bibet, aut Germania Tigrim Verg. Eel, i. 62 f. — jUXav: this 
epithet is applied to springs and rivers, as well as to the sea, when the 
surface is disturbed by breezes in such a way as to prevent a clear reflec- 
tion of the sun's light. 

826. Tp»cs : in the broader sense, — the inhabitants of the country. 

827. ndvSapos : he broke the truce of the Third Book, by shooting an 
arrow at Menelaus, A 89 fP. ; he was slain by Diomed, E 290 fP. — xaC : 
see on A 249. — t6(ov kt\, : i,e, Apollo gave him skill with the bow; cf 
laetus Apollo | augurium citharamque dabat, celeresque 
sagittas Verg. Aen. xii. 393 f. The ancients believed that the bow of 
an excellent archer must be the gift of the god of the bow. The making 
of the bow of Pandarus, from the horns of a wild goat shot by himself, 
is described A 105-111. 

828. 'ASp^o^iav: received its name from Adrestus, 830. Like the 
following cities, it lay in what was Mysia in later times. — 84||u>v: the 
country y as 547. 

829. UirifCiav : received its name from the neighboring pine forests ; 
as the neighboring Lampsacus was called Hirvovoa. — Ti)pcCi)s : a moun- 
tainous region near Cyzicus. 

830. Xivo0^pi|( : perhaps as an archer. See on 529. 



106 



COMMENTARY. 



831. vU S^m: see on a 16. — ncpKMo-Cov: he seems to have lived for- 
merly in Percote (835) ; or Adrastea may have been a colony from Per- 
cote. — vipl irdrrMv : see on A 258. 

832. •gScc fcrX. : Homer knows of no professional soothsayers. Calchas 
(A 69), Helenas (Z 76), Ennomus (858), Melampus, Halitherses, — all 
are introduced as busy in different ways, in war and in peace. — oiU : for 
the lengthened ultima before the possessive pron., see § 32 c, h. — oiXk 
loo-Kcv: 'resistance to pressure' is implied in the imperfect He con- 
tinually refused his consent. 

833. ^io-^vopa : a standing epitiiet of the battle. 

835. apa: as 522. — IIcpKt^v: Percote, Abydus, and Arisbe were 
cities on the south side of the Hellespont. 

836. 2i|o-r6v: on the Thracian Chersonese, opposite Abydus. Here 
Xerxes bridged the Hellespont. 

838. "Aooot: for the repetition of the name, see on 671. 
840-877. The Allies of the Trojans. 

840. IIcXao^Mv: a part settled in Greece proper, a part must have 
remained in Asia Minor. They gave to many of their towns the name 
Larisa (rock-citadel). Ten towns of this name are enimierated, beside 
the citadel Larissa of Argos. 

844 ff . The following enumeration of allies has a radial arrangement, 
proceeding from Troy as the centre and starting-point. Each radius ends 
with a niK6$€v (849, 857, 877) or rrjXt (863) for the most distant point 
from Troy. I. European line (844-850). II. Northeast of Troy, on 
the southern shore of the Euxine sea (851-857). IH. Southeast of Troy 
(858-863). IV. South of Troy (864-877). 

844. 6p^iKas: European Thracians, dwelling between the Hebrus 
and the Hellespont. — tfYf : for the sing., see on 512. 

845. 'EXX^onrovros : the Hellespont in Homer includes also the neigh- 
boring waters. — d^Appoos: with strong stream. It is called a irorafwg. 
No current of the Mediterranean compares with that of the Hellespont. 
— IvTos i^pyci: as 617. 

846. KiKdvttv: Odysseus destroyed their city, after leaving Troy. 
They are mentioned among the Thracian nations through whose country 
Xerxes passed. 

850. 'A{iod: for the repetition, see on 671. The Axius is one of the 
chief rivers of Macedonia, west of the Strymon. Homer applies to it 
the epithets cvpvpcc^pos, PaOv&Lvriq. — KdXXurrov : pred. Whose water is 
the most beautiful that " etc. The water of the Axius is now muddy. 

851. Here the poet returns to Asia. See on 816-877. — UvXeuiUvcos 
ktK : equiv. to " the shaggy-breasted Pylaemenes." For the periphrasis, 



SECOND BOOK OP THE ILIAD. 



107 



ef, 387, r 105. — Xdo^ov itfjp: see on A 189. Here the epithet is trans- 
ferred to the heart itself. 

852. I{ 'EvcTMv: ovl of the midst of the Enetians, where he dwelt. 
Equiy. to "Evcnycos. In later times these 'Evctch were called Veneti; 
they were said to have wandered to the coast of the Adriatic sea. — 
d^ypoTip^Mv : the comparative ending' is sometimes used in Homer with 
no thought of greater or less degree, but simply of contrast. 

854. icXvrd : magnificent ; a standing epithet. 

856. C/. 517. 

858. Mvo-wv: south of the Propontis, east of the Aesepus, towards 
Bithynia. 

859. o^K : placed emphatically before otcDvourtv, with reference to the 
preceding oia>vum7«. C/. gratissimus augur; | sed non augurio 
potuit depellere pestem Verg. Aen, ix. 327 f. — oC«»vot(rtv: hy 
omens, from the flight of birds. See on A 69. 

860. viro x<P^^ • VTTO with the dat. is freq. used by Homer where the 
Attic used xnro with the genitive. See § 19 /. — AUucCSao : for the use of 
the patronymic, see on 621. 

861. Iv voraiii^: as 875. The story of the general slaughter by 
Achilles in the bed of the Scamander is told in $ 17 ff. — oOt irep: just 
where, 

862. ^pvYot : sc, on the river Sangarius. They were famed for their 
chariots and their vineyards, F 184 fP. They had commercial relations 
with the Trojans. Vergil calls the Trojans Phrygians, but this is not 
Homeric, c/I alma Venus Phrygii Simoentis ad un dam Verg. 
Aen, i. 618. — ^Ao-Kdvtos : Homer knows of no son of Aeneas. The boy 
Ascanius was invented later as a companion-piece to Hector's son Asty- 
anax. 

863. 'A0>KavCt|s : in Bithynia, on a lake of the same name on which 
lay also the later Nicaea. — |U|ia(rav : instead of a partic. or rel. clause, 
see 21 d, — vo-itCvt : local dative. Synonymous with fidxi^, voXc/aos, &;con;9> 

864. Mn'ooav: later called Lydians. They iuhabited an attractive 
land, and were equipped with chariots ; they traded with the Trojans ; 
and their women were skilled in purple dyeing. — iJyrio-dcriKiv : see on 620. 

865. riryaCii XCfivi) : t.e. the nymph of that lake, cf vviiffni vqk Z 21. 
All of these nymphs belong to Western Asia Minor, which was thought 
to be their favorite abode. 

866. xaC : also, marks the agreement with 864. See on 74. 

867. PopPopo^vMv : rough-voiced, refers to the harshness of their dia- 
lect The word Papfiapoi for non-Greek, foreigner, is not found in Homer, 
Just as the poet has no one word for <all Greece.' — No one in Homer 



108 



COMMENTARY. 



has any difficulty in conversing with another of a different country. 
Greeks, Trojans, and Lycians all seem to speak the same language. 

868. MCXi|Tov : this old Carian city became the largest Ionian city and 
the mother of 80 colonies, but lost much of its importance in the insur- 
rection against the Persians, 494 B.C. 

869. Mvk^Xtis : at the foot of this mountain the Persians were de- 
feated, 479 B.C. 

870. apa : sOy as I said, refers back to 867. 

871. N&(rn|s xrA.. : repeated from the preceding verse, in the reverse 
order. See on 671. 

872. : refers to the principal person, 'Saxmj^ 867. — xaC : marks the 
agreement with dyAoa riicva 871, cf. 866. — xpva-ov €x«v : tuith gold orna- 
ments, prob. the gold spirals used in fastening his long hair, ^vaoy here 
cannot refer to gold armor such as that of Glaucus, Nestor, or Achilles, 
since that was an honor and no reproach. Nastes was the Trojan Nireus 
(671 ff.). — 'n^Tf Koiipi| : like a vain girl, 

873. Wj trios : see on 38. 
874 = 860. 

876. 2af»in|8^v: second only to Hector; the bravest leader of the 
allies, regarded by the Trojans as Ip/xa voXi^ 11 549 prop of the city. 
He was son of Zeus and Laodamia, Bellerophon's daughter, Z 198 f. See 
p. X. of the Vocabulary. He led in the attack on the Achaean camp, M 
101, 292 ff., 397 ff. He was slain by Patroclus, H 480 ff. At the com- 
mand of Zeus, Apollo bathed his corpse, anointed it with ambrosia, and 
gave it to the twin brothers. Sleep and Death, to convey to Lycia, U 
667 ff. — rXafiKo«: Glaucus tells of his race, Z 145 ff. He was first 
cousin of Sarpedon and grandson of Bellerophon, descended from Sisy- 
phus of Corinth. He is associated with Sarpedon in the battles. He has 
a famous meeting with Diomed, Z 119 ff. He was wounded by Teucer, 
M 387 ff. The honors received by the two Lycian heroes at home, are 
enumerated by Sarpedon, M 310. — The name * Lycia ' is given by the 
poet also to the district from which Pandarus (827) comes, cf, E 105. 
From those Trojan Lycians, the Southern Lycians of Sarpedon are to be 
distinguished. 

877. gdvOov : mentioned also E 479, M 313 ; to be distinguished from 
the Trojan river Sv BavBw Kokiovai Oeol, dvSpe^ 2#ca/iav3pov Y 74. 



THIBD BOOI^ OP THE ILIAD. 



109 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 

Instead of the general battle which was to be expected from the prepa- 
rations of the Second Book, a duel is fought between Menelaus and Paris. 
This duel is intended by the combatants to put an end to the entire war. 

In the Third Book, the poet gives to his hearers a view of the state of 
affairs in Troy, as the preceding Books had taught of the relations exist- 
ing between the Achaeans, both leaders and men. 

1-75. The advance of both armies, Paris and Menelaus meet. Hector's 
rebuke and the answer of Paris, 

1-14. A transition to the scene of the approaching conflict. 

1. This verse refers to B 476, 815. — f Kairroi : i.e. the separate divis 
ions of each army. The singular would have been used of individuals. 
See on A 606. 

2. TfMis: i,e. Trojans and their allies. — As B 826, not as B 816.— 
<^yyfi '"■^ • tt^* clamor and outcry. One idea, expressed for emphasis 
by two synonymous nouns. Cf. A 492, B 339. See § 12 J. — jpvtOcs »$ 
cf. B 764, and see on B 190. This comparison is made definite by l 
special illustration. — The Achaeans silent in the consciousness of their 
power are contrasted with the noisy Trojans. Elsewhere also the Tro- 
jans are represented as exercising less self-restraint, as less disciplined 
than the Greeks. When the strife is renewed, A 429 ff., the Achaeans 
advance in solemn silence, while the Trojans come to meet them with the 
noise of a flock of sheep. 

3. i{i(iTc : see on B 87. — oipav66i irp6 : the adv. irpo makes ovpavoOi 
more definite. To the observer, the sky seems to be behind the cranes in 
their lofty flight. See on B 456. — C/I quales sub nubibus atris | 
Strymoniae dant signa grues, atque aethera tranant | cum 
sonitu, fugiuntque notos clamore' secundo Yerg. Aen. x. 
264 ff ., < As multitudinous on the ocean line | As cranes upon the cloud- 
less Thracian wind,' Shelley Hellas. 

4. Ivflovv: as A 57. — x'**!*^*^*^- ^f* y^pavoi ^cvyovom ^eifiunfa rov 
€v rrj ^KvdiKg X'^PV y^voyuEvovy ifxM.riova'i is xcifuurii/v (winter quarters) is 
TOPS TOTTous TovTovs of the Nile) Hdt. ii. 22, quam multae glome- 
rantur aves, ubi frigidus annus | trans portum fugat, et 
terris immittit apricis Yerg. Aen. vi. 311 f. — ^vyov: for the 
gnomic aor. in comparisons, cf. 10, 23, 33 ; see § 14 /. 

5. icXaYY^ : contains the real point of the comparison ; 6 f . are added 
simply to complete the picture. See § 14 a. — ral : repeats the subject, 



no 



COMMENTABT. 



at T€ 4. See on A 07. — kwi kt\. : toward the currents etc., t.€. toward the 
South. See on A 423. 

6. &v8pdo% : made prominent in contrast with the cranes, dn/p often 
stands in attributive connection with nouns, cf, avSp€^ arrparvSmUy av^q 
dSeX^oi, icrX. See on B 474. — nvyiiaCoioa : these Liliputians (lit. Fist- 
lings) on the southern shore of the Mediterranean, were attacked yearly 
by the cranes, acc. to the common story. — Cf, * that small infantry | 
Warr'd on by cranes/ Milton Par, Lost i. 575. — ^vov ktX. : cf, B 352. 

7. <i^pvai : see on A 497. Le, on the day after their arrival in the land 
— Kcud|v : destructive, as A 10. — Sc, to the Pygmies. — IptSa ktX. : offer 
(lit. bring forward) strife. 

8. ol 8' 6ipa: correlative with TpSk^ fiiv 2. — Co-av o-ty^: cf ov yap 
Kpauyg dXAa atyff . . . kcu '^avxg . . . irpo(ry<mv Xen. An, i. 8. 11. — |tivia 
wiCovTfs : see on B 536. — Cf, * Thus they | Breathing united force with 
fixed thought | Moved on in silence/ Milton Par, Lost i. 559 ft, 

9. Iv Owfup : emphatic. In heart, though they did not shout. Cf, B 
223. 

10. cvrc : generally a temporal particle ; here a comparative conj., as, 
like 4jvT€ 3. — "As the South wind veils the mountain tops with mist." 

11. ov <^CXi|v ktX. : sc, since the shepherd on the mountains in a 
thick mist cannot easily watch and guard his flock. — wktos dpcCvM : 
perhaps because the sheep were usually shut up in their fold at night. 

12. r6a-vov, oo-ov : acc. of extent, with iirt, cf, B 616. — r4,r4: these 
mark the correlation of the clauses ; see on A 82. — Distances are thus 
measured in Homer : as the cast of a spear, or of a discus, or of a shep- 
herd's crook, or a bowwshot, or a furrow's length, or the reach of the voice. 

13. J^&paKTk,: BsB 784. 
14 = B 785. 

15. A formula which, in close connection with what has preceded, 
introduces the single combat of two warriors. — crxcSov tio-av : were near 
each other. For the use of the adverb, see on A 416. — kw dXX^Xourtv : 
const, with 16vt€s» For iwl in hostile sense, cf, 132 ; see on A 382. 

16. Tp«MrCv: for the Trojans, — 'AX^avSpos: the Greek name of Paris, 
and used four times as freq. as the other. — OcoctS^s : this epithet is given 
him because of his personal beauty. Cf, 39, 44 ft., 55, 64. 

17. irap8aX(i|v: adj. as substantive. See on A 54. As a light-armed 
warrior (he was eminently a bowman), he wore no armor, and thus has a 
panther's skin on his shoulders. See on B 43. 

18. aMip : on the other hand. This gives prominence to Sovp€, since 
the spears do not belong properly to the archer's equipment, which has 
just been described. — 8odpc S^m* : i.e. one in either hand. Cf. 338. For 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



Ill 



Svci> with the dual, see on A 16. — KCK0fni6|Uva icrX. : helmeted with bronze, 
ue. bronze pointed. For the pL in agreement with the dual, cf, A 200. — Cf. 
bina manu lato crispans hastilia ferro Yerg. J[en. i. 313, laeva 
duo forte gerebat | praef ixa hastilia ferro ib, xii. 488 f. 

19 £f. For the single combat, cf. * And there went out a champion out 
of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was 
six cubits and a span. And he had an helmet of brass upon his head, 
and he was armed with a coat of mail ; and the weight of the coat was 
five thousand shekels of brass. And he had greaves of brass upon his 
legs, and a target of brass between his shoulders. And the staff of his 
spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spear's head weighed six hundred 
shekels of iron ; and one bearing a shield went before him. And he 
stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why 
are ye come out to set your battle in array? Am not I a Philistine, and 
ye servants to Saul ? Choose you a man for you, and let him come dowu 
to me. If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be 
your servants : but if I prevail against him and kill him, then shall ye 
be our servants, and serve us." And the Philistine said, " I defy the 
armies of Israel this day ; give me a man, that we may fight together," ' 
1 Sam, xvii. 4-10; cum trigeminis («(?. Horatii and Curiatii) agunt 
reges, ut pro sua quisque patria dimicent ferro : ibi ^ 
imperium f ore, unde victoria f uerit, Livy i. 24; 'Then said the 
doughty Douglas | Unto the Lord Percy: | ''To kill all these guiltless 
men, | Alas ! it were great pitie. | But, Percy, thou art a lord of land, | I 
am an earl called within my coimtry ; | Let all our men upon a parti 
stand, I And do the battle of thee and me," ' Chevy Chase, 

19. irdXXttv: parallel with i)(wv 17. — irpoKoXC^c'i^ ^ challenged; by 
his mien rather than by words, cf. 21. wpoKaXjLiofijeiHK would make a 
smoother const, here, but the finite verb is used in order to give the 
thought more prominence ; cf ifiaXXov 80. Thus Ix^v and waXXiav seem 
to be related to both imperfects. — irdvros dpCorrovs: in marked contrast 
with the yielding of Paris before Menelaus, who was not distinguished in 
battle. — Here the period returns to 16, since this verse explains irpoyuor 
Xilfv. — Paris and Menelaus are introduced first in the action, since the 
two are the prime cause of the war. Their feud is private as well as pub- 
lic. The description of the two foes is made specially effective by the 
contrast of their characters. 

20. dyrCPiov : cf avTi.piyjv A 278 ; used only of the hand to hand con- 
flict. — |iax^o-aor6ai : inceptive aorist. 

21. hi: correL with /xey 16. — cSs: for its position, see on A 32. — 
d^C^iXos : this epithet is generally applied as here to Menelaus. The 



112 



COMMENTARY. 



epithet and the name form a convenient close to the verse. See on A 7, 
§ 58 d. 

22. vpoirdpoiOiv ofiOlov: sc. as wpofmxo^. — iiaKpa pipdvra: with long 
strides. This gives the manner of ip^ofJionv. It is here a sign of cour- 
age, for Paris was no coward. Cf. longe gradientem Verg. Aen. x. 
572, < Satan with vast and haughty strides advanced/ Milton Par. Lost^ 
vi. 109. 

23. «s Tc Ximv jcrX. : a comparison instead of the apod., which (with 
oi^OaXfUMTiv i8aiv as a repetition of cjs Mrfcev) follows at 27. The gnomic 
aor. ixoipf contains the point of comparison ; but irtivwav also receives 
emphasis from its position and corresponds to ^ro yap ruraxrOajL 28, i.e, 
joy at the promised satisfaction of a passionate desire. — lirl o-^|iari KVf»- 
o-os : as he happened upon the carcass of a beast just slain in the chase 
(cf. 26). a-Stfm is used in Homer only of a dead body, see § 17. — Cf. 
impastus stabula alta leo ceu saepe peragrans, | suadet 
enim vesana fames; si forte fugacem | conspexit capream 
aut surgentem in cornua cervum | gaudet Verg. Aen. x. 723 ft. 
The aor. is gnomic, like cvpcliv below. 

24. cvpt&v : as he found. This explains Kvpauq, and is in appos. with it. 

25. |id\a Kaxf (r6Cci : eagerly devours. — ^Ap t€ kt\. : explains iravdwv. — 
cC w€p av : see on B 597. — aMv : himself, in contrast with the goat or 
deer. 

26. icifvct ktX. : hounds and hunters.*' 

27. OcociS^a : with synizesis of the last two vowels of the verse, as 237, 
450; see § 25. 

28. TCo-aor6ai : for the aor. inf. after a verb of expecting, cf 112, 366 ; 
see G. 203 n. 2. 

29. Paris was on foot, see 22. — IJ ox^«»v : equiv. to iinriav 265. 

31. KarcirX^Yt) • " was filled with dismay " ; not from natural coward- 
ice, but his guilty conscience robbed him of courage, at sight of Menelaus. 
* Conscience does make cowards of us all.' — -n^op : see on A 44. 

33. MS 8' 6r% : introduces a comparison, with the gnomic aorist. See 
§ 14 e. — W, W: as 12. For the c remaining short before 8p, see § 59 g. 
— iroXCvopo-os dir^iTTn : stepped hack again, sc. in terror ; in this lies the 
point of the comparison. For the pred. adj. used as an adverb, cf ^ipuu 
7, aKTMH A 535. — Cf. improvisum aspris veluti qui sentibus 
anguem pressit | humi nitens, trepidusque repente refugit 
|...haud secus Androgens visu tremef actus abibat Verg. 
Aen. ii. 379 ft., * False Sextus saw and trembled, | And turned and fled 
away ; | As turns, as flies the woodman | In the Calabrian brake | When 
thro' the reeds gleams the round eye | Of that fell speckled snake, | So 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



113 



tnrned, so fled false Sextus | And hid him in the rear,^ Macaulay Lays, 
Battle of Regillus xv. 

34. wir6 : beloWf referring to the weakness of his knees. Const, with 

35. irApcids : in appos. with fuvy as a * part ' with the < whole ' ; cf, 438, 
442. 

36. KoO' o|LiXov : into the throng, — d^cp^x^^ • ^^^^ ^ 

37. 'AX^avSpos : in apposition with the subject of iSv, expressed here 
for the sake of the contrast with 'Arpm vtov. 

38. aUrxpots : ue, reproachftdy cf. ovcc^ctW B 277. 

39. Ai^o^irapi: 'a determinative compound' (H. 590; G. 886), stronger 
than Unhappy Paris." — ctSos dpurrc : as 124 ; in contrast with AiWa/H, 
cf 45. Thus the excellence that is granted is made a reproach, 
mvrd: cf 399. 

40. aCO' o^cXcs ktA.. : closely connected with the reproaches of the pre- 
ceding verse. — £yovos, aYOfios: childless, unmarried; two ideas that are 
proverbially l^onnected in this passionate wish, although Paris is not 
known to have had children. Elsewhere, also. Hector uses strong lan- 
guage to Paris and about him. See on 454. 

41. Kttl r6 : even this, referring to the preceding verse. — kc povXoC|Li|v : 

potential. I should prefer, cf A 112. — kcv tjcv : as contrary to fact in ^ 
present time. — iroXii : cf A 91, 112, and notes. 

42. H : follows the comparative idea in PovkoCfiriv, as A 117, koi k€v 
woXv ktX. being parenthetical. 

43. Kdpv| KO|&6«»VTfs : see on B 11. 

44. ^vTfs: imperfect participle, they who believed. Of an incorrect 
view, as B 37 and frequently. — KoXdv : seldom is an adj. at the close of 
one verse in close connection with a noun at the beginning of the next, 
§ 11 J. Many apparent exceptions to this rule can be explained, as A .78, 
156, 283. This arrangement of words may have been chosen here in 
order to give increased prominence to ccSog. Perhaps koXov and c7So9 should 
change places, having been transposed to avoid an < apparent hiatus.' 

45. Jm: for hrtorri, as A 515; attends thee. — dXX* o^k kt\. : the con- 
trast with <f>dvT€^ calls strictly for a participle denoting the Achaeans' 
recognition of the truth. Instead of this. Hector states the fact from his 
own standpoint. — pCi| : might, for attack. — <^pc(rCv : local, see on A 24. — 
dXK4 : strength, for defence. 

46. Can such a coward have dared to meet the dangers involved in 
the rape of Helen?" — t»i4o-8c : with deictic cf 157, B 120. 

47. lpCi)pa«: for the (metaplastic) form, see § 37 h, — &YcCpa«: subor- 
dinate to CTTiirXcixras [Attic cvcn-Xevcras]. 



114 



COMMENTARY. 



48. dXXo8a«otoa : masc. adj. as snbstantiye, cf. l^ofAmwf B 819. See 
on A 54, 539. — dvit^fs : didst lead (bring) home to Troy. 

49. diKip: cf. A 270. — w6v: sister-in-law of Agamemnon, who is 
implied in the more general avSpSw ktX. — alxj^i^riMv : cf, A 290. Impor* 
tant for the thought here. For the plural, cf. 106, B 250. 

50. n-fJiMi : as a bane. This acc. and the two following are in apposi* 
tion with the whole of the preceding sentence, marking the result of the 
action. C/: B 160; see H. 626; Good. 915. — S^fi^: country, as B 547. 
— For the (prob. accidental) alliteration of ir, see § 13 a, 

51. tva^viaxv ktX. : for the * chiastic ' order of words, cf. 103 f., 179, 
A 443, 558 f . ; see § 16 a. — Kan|^Ci|v : humiliation, shame. Cf 6 Kucipm 
tifni . . . yeXomi /tcy roc9 cx^pots, cuaxa^ Sc rots oaccuxs mpeyovra Dio 
Cass, xxxviii. 23. 1. 

52. oix av Si{ ktX. : a question in the sense of an energetic but sar- 
castic exhortation. Couldst thou not then withstand etc. f Stand to meet 
etc. The way for this question has been prepared by 50 f. "If thou 
hadst the courage to bring Helen to Troy, if thou didst bring war upon 
thy native land, then have the courage " etc. 

53. -yvoCiis Kc : then wouldst thou be made aware. The cond. ci fjuuvtus, 
is easily supplied, cf A 232, B 242. — Ixtis: hast to wife, as 123. 

54. o^K Toi XP^^V^XH' "will not help thee (A 28)." This is more 
definite than the opt. with av, to be expected after yvoCq^ kc. See § 18 b. 
ore fuyeirj^ is stated as a mere conception of the mind. — KCOapis : without 
the article, although the other nouns here have it. Achilles, also, had a 
cithara. He sang, however, not love-songs but icXca av&pSiv. — tA: these, 
thy; deictic like the following ^ and to. 

55. i| Tc ktX^ : among the gifts of the goddess of love, two are made 
prominent. Observe the explanatory apposition. — |uycCt|s Iv: cf 209; 
generally the simple dative is used with fuywfu. 

56. yj&Xa: altogether, cf. B 241. — SctS^fjiovcs: sc. since Paris belonged 
to the royal family. — 1^ W kcv fo-o^: the cond. idea (English else) is 
implied as in 53. 

57. Xdivov ktX^ : put on a stone tunic. A grim expression of popular 
speech for death by stoning, the customary method of capital punish- 
ment in heroic times (as in the laws of Moses). — lo-o-o: from €vw/u 
(coTVfu) . 

59. 'Ektop : construe with 64, where the principal thought begins. — 
lirfC: follows the voc. as A 352. This clause has no grammatical con- 
clusion. The virtual conclusion is 67 f. 

60. aUC rot: this thought is resumed in 63 with an accented aolt 
because of the contrast. — dxf tp^t : unwearied. Predicate of Kpau^Crj. 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



115 



61. ctinv: goes. It is always used as pres. in Homeric comparisons, 
B 87. — SuL 8ovp6s : through the trUnk of a tree, — w dWpot : driven by 

a man. For the passive sense in cTo-tv, see H. 820. — St ^ tc ktX. : hypo- 
thetical, "when he hews out" of the felled tree etc. — WxiTj: toith skill. 
For the dative, cf. KXayyy 2, atyff 8. 

62. o^^XXii KTk, : the axe by its weight increases the force of the man's 
blow, o^cXXci has the same subject as elaiv, which shows the intervening 
clause to be parentheticaL 

63. &Tdppi|To$ : attributive adjective with voos. 

64. |iOi: < adversative asyndeton/ see § 15 c, — irpd^pc : cf B 251. 
— XP^'^'^* equiv. to ^va'o4>6p€n), adorned with gold, Cf B 872, Venus 
a urea Verg. Aen, x. 16. SimDarly, Ares is ^o^^os, because of his 
bronze armor. — "I acknowledge my lack of thine unyielding courage, 
but do not cast m my teeth the gifts of Aphrodite." 

65. « Causal asyndeton,' ue. if a particle were used here, it would be 
causal. — &v6pXi|Ta: abiecta, to he cast offt sls B 361. Cf, vSv KTiafm 
(creature) Oeov koXov, kol ovSev dvopXriTov 1 Tim, iv. 4. 

66. Swa . • . Sdo-iv: for the cond. rel. sentence, see on A 554. 
Explanatory of SStpa, adding the essential mark of the gods' gifts, ue, 
that they are of free choice. — airoC : ue. without act and thus without 
responsibility of the receiver. — ckmv cXoito : this forms an independent 
contrast to the preceding relative clause. — ^k^v : at pleasure, by his oum 
powers, 

67. avrc : transition from the preceding general considerations to 
the work before them. 

68. aXXovs : the others. — KdOurov : bid to sit down, 

69. aMip: see on B 768. — h (Uo-o-^: between the two armies, cf 77, 
in medium inter duas acies procedunt Livy i. 25. 1, cycipc koL 
oT^^i €19 TO fUa-ov St, Luke vi. 8. For the neuter adj. as a substantive 
(not very freq. in Homer), see on A 539. 

70. o^|ipdXiTc: bring together, cf ^werjKe A 8. The plural is used, 
since the consent of the Achaeans also was necessary for the single 
combat. — tcnffioo-i max : ue. those which Paris carried away with Helen 
from the house of Menelaiis; cf 282. 'Helen and her treasures' are 
often united in thought. ^ |&dx<<'^<^ : as A 8. 

71. viK^o^ : shall gain the victory. As future perfect, shall be victorious, 

72. kbi seems to strengthen irdvra. — : middle, take as his own. 

73. ol 8' fiXXoi : but you, the rest. Elsewhere, when at the beginning 
of the verse, but they, the others; as 94, 256. ot 8* oAAoi includes both 
Trojans and Achaeans, and a division into oi fiev, oi Sc might be expected ; 
but instead of this, the 2d person (moirc) appears in the first member, 



116 



COMMENTARY. 



and roc vtitrBm in the second. Cf. 256 ff. — ^iX^nfra : ^zengmad* 
cally ' {cf. Zcvs A 533, § 16 e) connected with rafuovrei which is construed 
strictly only with opKui. — mu^m^ : see on B 124. 

74. vatiom : may ye continue to dwell. Note the optative between two 
imperatives. This is a mere incident to the proposition. — IptPdiXaica: 
epithet of Phtfaia, A 155, and of Larisa, B 841. — rol U : but those, the 
Achaeans. 

75. 'Apryot, 'Axai(8a: ue. Peloponnesus (as A 30) and Northern 
Greece, i.e. all Hellas. See on B 530. — KoXXiY^vatKa : see on B 683. 

76-120. Hector and Menelaus. Preparations for the truce and single 
combat. 

76. duo^oroi : gives the cause of ^xofyti. 

78. |aio-o^ 8ovp6s : partitive genitive. I.e, holding the spear horizon- 
tally with both hands, crowding the Trojans back. — lSp^v0i|o-av : were 
brought to a halt. This gives the result of Ay€€fr/€, see on B 94. 

79. iinTo{dtorro : imperfect of attempted action. They were bending 
their bows at him. 

80. ipoXXov : transition from the participial to the finite construction, 
in order not to subordinate this idea to iwtToiaiovrOj although the rc . . . 
rc would make paXXovre^ natural here. See §§ 11 g, 21 h, 

82. Cox<o^» H P^LXXtrc: note the < asyndeton' (§ 15) where the sec- 
ond imv. explains the first; and the double address, 'Apycox, Kovpoi 

83. o^ihxM: cf B 597. — liros: for the length of the ultima, see §§ 
32 a, 59 y. — KopvOaCoXot: see on B 816. 

84. i&dx^s : for the genitive, cf 112, <|vr$9 B 97. — avcy' ti ktX. : cf 
B 323. Sc. in order to hear Hector's speech. 

85. l(ro^|Uvo»«: made emphatic by its position. Adv. formed from 
the adjectival ia-avfjxvo^. — i&ct dfi^oWpoioav : between both armies. 

86. K^icXvTf |i,c9 : hear from me. The genitive is ablatival. 

87. fii^v: proposition, plan. 

89. k6X : for the accent of the ultima (icoXa) thrown back upon the 
preceding syllable, cf. 192, A 105; see § 28 d. — dvoOiorOai : t.c. they were 
to be mere spectators. — kwi x^ovt : for the dative of rest, cf A 593. 

90-94 = 69-73, with necessary changes. — aMv: intensive, himself 
avro9 povkerax would be natural here, but the acc. is used, correlative 
with (JAAous /JL€V above. 

92 = 71. — Transition to direct discourse, see § 11 c. Cf 89. 

95. dK^v : equiv. to dxccDv A 34. Originally a cognate acc. with 
iyivwTOf cf § 56 6. — o-icmtq : dat. of manner, equiv. to cnonrcovrc?. — Cf 
dixerat Aeneas, ill! obstupuere silentes Yerg. Aen. xi. 120. 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



117 



96. OviA^v: acc. of * limit of motion.' — l|&6v: made emphatic by its 
position before the caesural pause. — <^poWo» ktX. : **My mind is that we 
now (rjSrf) are to separate in peace." ^/dokccd is nearly equiy. to Sokc? fwi. 
For the aorist infinitive, cf. 28. 

99. 'ApycCovs Kal TpAot : has more feeling than v/iSs kxu ^fiSs. See on 
A 240. — irhroa^t [vcirovAirc] : the speaker returns to the address begun 
with k€kXvt€, 

100. l|L4js lpi8o« : my strife with Paris. — Apx^s • beginning, cf, 87, 
B 377 f. A mild expression for the guilt of the first breach of the peace. 

101. omroWpY : the anteced. is the subject of reOifaltf. — AdvaTos xal 
|Mtpa : cf if>6vov kcI lajpa 6, Odmrov kcI tror/wy B 359. — Wtvktcu : is pre- 
pared, appointed, 

102. TcOvaCi| : let him be dead, let him lie among the dead. — SioKpivtctTc : 
repeats SuucpivOij/uvaA. 

103. oCom : aor. imperative, as Siere 105, opceo 250 ; but ouro/icv 104 
is future. See § 48 1. — apvc : cf apva^ 117. — Xtvicdv, lUXcuvav : the white 
male lamb was to be sacrificed to the gleaming Helios, while the dark 
ewe lamb was for T<ua fitXaJwa (B 699). The sex of the victim was gen- 
erally that of the divinity ; thus a cow is sacrificed to Athena, but a buU 
to Poseidon. — The order of words is * chiastic * with the following verse. 
For the divinities to whom this sacrifice is to be offered, see on 276. 

105. npid|u>io pCi|v : for the periphrasis, cf B 387, 658, 851 ; see § 16 d. 

— opKitt Td|iV|| : may conclude the treaty, as 73, 94. The victims are slain 
by Agamemnon, not by Priam. 

106. aMi : in person ; the old king being contrasted with his sons. 
The poet forgets the periphrasis and proceeds as if he had said Hpuifwv. 

— Ivf ( : this introduces the first reason ; the second follows with aUl 8c 
108. — ol: for him, his. See § 19 €. — vaSScs: this refers primarily to 
Paris. For the pi. cf 49. 

107. Tis ktX. : let no one etc. Expression of anxiety connected 
immediately with his opinion of the sons of Priam. — Aiot ^pKta: Zeus 
watches over solemn treaties and punishes whoever breaks them ; cf 280, 
288, A 160, 166, oI BeStv opxot Xen. An. ii. 5. 7. 

106. 'qcplOovroi : are flighty, unsteady, untrustworthy. For the literal use 
of this verb, see B 448. 

109. otf : personal. It has ho corresponding rots in the apodosis. — 
6 yipnv : the old man (generic article), in contrast with oirXorcpcDv 108. — 
lUT^oi [fier^, from pjirtipx] : for the subjunctive, cf A 554. — vpdo-o-M 
m-X. : cf. A 343. 

110. Smni how. Indirect question. — ^x' «pi'<rTa: cf A 69. ^|mt 
A|i4oT^M% : " for both sides." 



118 



COMMENTARY. 



lU. 'AxomI kt\. : in apposition with oi. 

112. mi^owOoi: for the aorist infinitive after iXvofUvoi, see on 28. 
To free themselves froniy to be freed from, with ablatival genitive. 

113. Ktd ^a: and so,—M, rrlxaa: cf, B 687.— Ik 8* ipav [cj^iTOoy]: 
sc, from their war chariots. 

114. Kar^Ocrrt) : sc, 'Axcuot rc Tpwcs rc. Cf. amBifrOai 89. 

115. irXt|o-Cov dXX^Xttv : refers to ra lUv. This thought is stated in 
different form by the rest of the verse : little ground was round about each 
suit of armor. 

116. 8v« : this numeral is construed with the plural where the two 
persons are not necessarily and closely connected. — K^pvKos : the heralds 
were the only official members of the king*8 household ; cf A 320 ff., B 
183 f . Thus the service of the heralds, 268 ff., is because of their rela- 
tions to the king's person. 

118. TaXe^piov : see on A 320. 

120. oMiuvcu.: aor. inf., cf 103. — apa: then, so; the immediate 
result of the commission. — o^k &ir(0i)o-c : followed by a dative of the 
person. 

121-244. The view from the walls, Helen, questioned by Priam, tells 
him about some of the Achaean heroes. This episode has been criticised as 
interrupting the progress of the action, but it has been much admired 
also. Cf, the scene in Ivanhoe where Rebecca describes the leaders of 
the assailing party. 

121. Iris, elsewhere the messenger of the gods, here of her own accord 
brings into the action Helen, the cause of the war and the prize of the 
expected single combat. The following scene (TcixocrKoiria) which occu- 
pies the time necessary for the preparations for the principal action (see 
on A 318), introduces the hearer to the Trojans and their relations to 
each other. — XcvKo»X4v(p : see on A 55. 

122. YoXdcp : husband's sister. The Greeks were not restricted to such 
a climisy and indefinite expression as sister-in4aw, Cf Sai^p 180, Ifcvpe 
172. 

124. Aao8CKt|v ; attracted to the case of the relative rqv, see on B 764. 
— ctSos &p{o-n)v: lit. most excellent in appearance, mx>st beautiful. Cf, 39. 

125. Iv i&cYdp^ : in her chamber, cf 142. — urr^v : web. Weaving was 
the most honorable employment of Homeric women ; it occupied queens 
and goddesses. So Hector, on parting from Andromache, says oXA' cis 
oTicov lovcro Ta cr' avrrj^ Ipya KopA^is. (care for), \ larov t (loom) rjXaKaTrp^ 
T€ (spindle) Z 490 f. 

126. SCirXaxa: fem. adj. as substantive, see on A 54. Sc, xXcumv, cf 
^Aaimv StTrX^v. A double cloak (cf, * doublet ') ; so large that it could be 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 119 

thrown twice (or double) about the body. — vop^p^v : of purple, while 
the interwoven scenes were of some other color. This art was prob. still 
dependent on oriental patterns, but evidently had advanced to the repre- 
sentation of persons. — voX^as : as A 559. — Mma-a-w : wove in. — dIOXovs : 
battles, fought on the plain of Troy, before the action of the Iliad. Other 
allusions to these conflicts are found, cf. 132 f., A 520 f., B 29 f. But 
most of the earlier fighting seems to have been done at a distance. 

128. I9€v: not enclitic, since it is reflexive, referring to the subject of 
the principal sentence. — vn 'Apvios ktX, : by the hands of A res. 

129. See on B 790. 

130. Scvp' f0i : cf. PacTK lOi B 8. — O^KfXa Ifrya : an indefinite expres- 
sion, exciting Helen's curiosity. 

131 = 127. 

132. ot irpCv : who be/ore, i.e, until now. The antec. of the rel. follows, 
ci Svj vvy 134. — 4irl ktX,: see on 15. — voXvScucfwv: i.e. causing many 
tears. Cf. 165, lacrimabile bellum Verg. Aen. vii. 604. 

133. For the rhyme between the two halves of the verse, cf B 484. 

134. &i| vihr: already now. — farcu [i7vr(u] 0*17^: with the collateral 
notion of inactivity. See on B 255. — irdXciios ktX.: parenthetical; see 
on B 333. 

135. acnrCo'i kcicXi|Uvoi : leaning on their shields, as they stood ; cf 231, 
326. — irapd : adv., by- their side. — tcifnryyvf : i.e. with the aavpuyn^p (bronze 
point of the butt) fixed in the ground. Cf defigunt telluri hastas 
et scuta reclinant Verg. Aen. xii. 130, stant terra defixae 
hastae ib. vi. 652. 

138. T<p Kf viK^o-avTi: him who gains the victory. — ic4: const, with 
vitcifaavTt, as is shown by its position and by oTnrorepoq 8c k€ viiajirrj 71. 
So 255. No other example of this construction is found in Homer. — 
^(Xi\ : standing epithet. See § 12 a. — Kf kX^ctxi : thou shalt be called. See 
an A 293, B 260. 

139. ctvoOo-a : coincides in time with ifiPaXe. — yXvkvv t|upov : cf. 446. 

140. irpoWpoio : Helen was no longer wife of Menelaus ; so she says 
of Agamemnon, Sa^p (husband's brother) avr i/io^ ll<rK€ 180. — oirrfof: 
used of the native city, as ttoXi?, 50. — tok^wv : Tyndareiis and Leda were 
thought of as alive. Tyndareiis is called Helen's father, just as Heracles 
is called son of Amphitryo. This is not inconsistent with 199, 418. 

141. dpYcw^o-i jctX. : cf. 419. In accordance with oriental custom, 
women and maidens were veiled when they went on the streets or came 
into the presence of men who were not immediate relations. 

142. OoXdfioio : the apartments of the women in the rear part of the 
house. There Helen sits and spins with her maids, Z 321 ff. 



120 



COMMENTARY. 



143. £|ui rj y€ rrX. : in apposition with ovk citf, cf. B 822. — Princely 
ladies in Homer are generally attended by two maids. 

144. Afipi|: Pittheus, king of Troezene, was son of Pelops. His 
daughter Aethra bore Theseus to Aegeus, king of Athens. She, living 
in Athens, had under her care Helen whom Theseus had carried off from 
Sparta, until Castor and Polydeuces freed their sister Helen and captured 
Aethra at or near Athens. So Aethra was made Helen's slave, first iu 
Sparta and afterwards in Ilios. But this seems to be a post-Homeric 
story. — KXv|Un| : likewise a slave brought with Helen from Sparta, cf, 
386 ff. — PoAvif : see on A 551. 

145. : thither where. — Sxaiol v^Xcu : see on B 809. 

146. o( S' d|i^l #crX. : see on 148, B 445. — 8v|ioCti|v : only here in 
Homer. Vergil uses the name: primusque Thymoetes | duci {sc, 
wooden horse) intra muros hortatur Aen. ii. 32 f. 

147 = Y 238, where it is said that these three heroes were sons of 
Laomedon, and brothers of Priam. — ^tov'Apiiot : see on B 540. 

148. (HKaXfy«v #ctX. : these two receive prominence from the use of 
the nom. The change from the construction of 146 f . is not bold since 
oc dfi<lH Jlpuifwv is essentially equiv. to Hpui/io? k€u ot d/x^i /uv. — Ucale- 
gon (ovk aXiyiav) is mentioned only here in Homer. Cf. jam proxi- 
mus (sc. to De'iphobus) ardet | Ucalegon Verg. Aen. ii. 311 f. — 
'AvT^vwp : he is esp. prominent in the following scene, 203-224, 262. 

149. ctaro: i7vro, see § 44 L — &i||&oY^povTfs : in apposition, as elders 
of the people. Title of the nobles as leaders and counsellors. See on B 21. 
This epithet is applied also to Ilus, son of Dardanus. — M SKat^o-i v6Xd- 
oav: i.e. on the tower above the Scaean Gate, from which the Trojan 
elders and women were wont to watch the battles on the plain ; c/1 153, 
384, spectaverant euim e moenibus Pergami non viri modo 
sed feminae etiam Livy xxxvii. 20. 

150. xh?^ ' oquiv. to 5ia ro yrjpa,^' — 8^ : already. — ircirav|Uvoi : the 
perfect indicates the continuance of the state brought about by the action 
of the verb. — dYOpi|raC: cf, A 248. 

151. rvrrlyta-axv : cicadae. The males sit on sunny bushes and during 
the longest days make, by rubbing their wings, a clear chirping noise 
which the Greeks of all times admired greatly. They are not mentioned 
elsewhere in Homer. — The comparison refers only to the tone of voice. 

152. 8cv8p<<p: a * trochee.* For the 'syuizesis,* cf. A 15, B651; see 
§ 25. — Xcipi6f o-o-av : from X.€ipu>v, lily-like^ ue. tender and delicate like the 
color of the lily. — Uto-iv : from Irjfu, see § 52 a. 

153. Totoi : such, predicate with ijvro. " Such were they who sat *' etc. 
See on A 266. — apa: recapitulates the comparison, cf. 161. 



THIBD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



121 



155. riKu. : for the short ultima, not leng^ened before irp, see § 59 ^ a. 

156. W|ico-if jctX. : " we cannot blame " etc, — The beauty of Helen 
could not be praised more delicately or efEectively than by this exclama- 
tion that she drew from the aged counsellors of Troy. Cf, non putant 
indignum Troiani principes, Graios Troianosque propter 
Helenae speciem tot mala tanto temporis spatio sustinere : 
quaenam igitur ilia forma credenda est? non enim hoc 
dicit Paris, qui rapuit, non aliquis iuvenis aut unus' e 
Yulgo, sed senes et prudentissimi et Priamo adsidentes 
QuintiUan viii. 4. 21, * Homer himself who so persistently refrains from 
all descriptions of physical beauty that we barely learn from a passing 
mention that Helen had white arms and beautiful hair, even he manages 
nevertheless to give us an idea of her beauty which far surpasses any- 
thing that art could do. Recall the passage where Helen enters the 
assembly of the Trojan elders. The venerable men see her coming, and 
one says to the others : ov vifuai^ rrX What can give a more vivid idea 
of her beauty than that cold-blooded age should deem it well worth 
the war which had cost so much blood and so many tears?' Lessing, 
Laocodn xxi. 

157. roi^8c: such a one as thatf as she stood before their eyes, with 
deictic -8c, cf. 46. This is explained by the following verse. — d|&^C : for 
the sake 0/, as 70, 91. 

158. alvAf : marvellouslyy mightily. — fls cSira: lit. into the face, when 
one looks in the face, in countenance, 

159. This is a general remark, and assumes no knowledge of the 
proposition of Paris. 

160. ovCro^: for the future, — trf||ia: see on 50. — XCvoiro: as passive, 
see § 50 (/. 

161. kKoXia-nro : called to him, — ^«v^: is used much like ffnovT^a^. 
It is contrasted with -^Ka 155. — The three following speeches are of nine 
verses each. Cf the synunetry in the prayers (on 301). 

162. Mpo: cf 130. — i|uto: construe with vapouOe, cf A 360. 

164. ov r( |iOi rrX. : Priam, as well as the poet, recognized the war as 
appointed and caused by the gods. He desired to remove the feeling of 
dread with which Helen, conscious of guilt, approached him. She appre- 
ciated his kindness, saying that Priam <was always kind as a father,' 
O 770. — |AoC : in my eyes. This is expressed in both clauses. — OfoC 

: for the asyndeton, cf A 107. — : / think, — Cf the words of 
Venus: non tibi Tyndaridis facies invisa Lacaenae | culpa- 
tusve Paris; divum inclementia, divum, | has evertit opes, 
sternitque a culmine Troiam Verg. Aen, ii. 601 ff. 



122 



COMMENTABT. 



165. ot: demonatratiye. — voXvSoKpw: c/l 132. 

166. Mt rrX. : a second final clause depending on 162. — noC: belongs 
to the whole clause, and indicates that another fijial sentence preceded. 

167. it nt: predicate. — o8c: observe the regular interchange of the 
prons. o8c and ovros in question and answer, here and 178, 192 and 200, 
226 and 229 ; both pronouns are deictic, but o8c indicates simply what 
is before the eyes, while ovros has reference to the question. — ijvs rt : cf, 
B653. 

168. TOi |alr : correl. with 8c 169. It is true indeed, — icf^aX<Q : in 

stature; cf. 193. — Ka(: still. 

169. ISov o^aXfiota^v : cf. Launcelot's ' running with thy heels,' Shak- 
spere Merchant of Venice ii. 2. 10. See on A 587. 

170. Ytpopdv: stately, cf 211. SeeB 478, and note. — PcunXf|i dvSpC: 
cf fiavXtf^opw avBpa B 24, and see on 6, B 474. 

171. 'Yuvoucdv : the gen. is partitive with the superlative idea in Smu 
172-176. Reply to 162-165. ~ at8oS6t n 8civ4s n : revered and dreaded. 

— ^€Xc, ^Kvp^: for the two < ultimas' lengthened by position, see § 32 c. 

173. Mt : introduces a wish. Cf alff o^cXc9 ktX.. A 415. — ^i^Xiv : 
see on A 353. — Kaic6t : the standing epithet of death. It is contrasted 
with a^civ. ''Would that I had chosen death rather." Helen rarely 
misses an opportunity to express penitent consciousness of her guilt, cf 
404, 412. See on B 356. Her penitence always wins indulgence and 
sympathy. 

174. 9dXe4Mv : marriage-chamber ; hence no special mention of her hus- 
band is needed. — yvtm^ : brothers. See 236 ff. 

175. «aS8a : i.e. Hermione, who afterward married Neoptolemus, son 
of Achilles. — <{|ii|XiKCi|v : abstract expression for ofn^XxKos, companions. 

176. t6: therefore. Adverbial acc. with rcn^Ko. — Ka(: also^ marks 
icXatovau Terrfxa (melt away in tears^ as the expected effect. 

177. dvcCpccu: followed by two accusatives, cf A 550. 

178. 'Arp^tSt|f : see on A 7. 

179. The favorite verse of Alexander the Great, according to Plutarch, 
de fortuna Alex. 331 c. — For the thought, see A 258 and note. — &|&^dTf- 
pov : both ; with the two parts added in apposition. — Observe the ' chi- 
asmus.' 

180. avn : on the other hand. — icw4irtSos : see on A 159, cf. 404. The 
gen. is in apposition with ifujv implied in ifw^. See on B 20. — ct wot 

: if ever he toas, '* if it was not all a dream." Helen speaks with 
mournful recollection of the happier past. 

182. ifcdKop : blessed. — |M>ipi)YcWs : child of fortune^ blest by Moi/oa at 
his birth. The opposite is found in A 418. 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 128 



183. { ^ w icrX. : in truth then were subject to thee. The plpf . (= impf.) 
is used with reference to the preyious perception of the numerous 
throng. 

184. KoC : cUsOf i.e. as well as to other countries. Cf. 205. — ^pvyii\v : 
on 6 862. 

185. Ma : there. — ^pi^ya^ dWpos : closely connected, cf. PajtriXrji dv3pt 
170. Whenever avSpcs is added to an ethnic name, the words are not 
separated. For the < diaeresis ' after the third foot, see § 58 ib. — aloXo- 
w^Xovs : with swift steeds. 

186. Otreus and Mygdon were Phrygian kings. Acc. to the later 
story, Otreus was brother of Hecaba. Aphrodite in visiting Anchises 
introduces herself as the daughter of Otreus. Mygdon was father of 
Coroebus (Cassandra^s bridegroom), acc. to Verg. Aen. ii. 341 ff. 

188. KoC : const, with cycSv. — cX^0i|v : / was numbered, 

189. 'Afiotdvit : these were thought to live on the east of Phrygia. 
They carried on a war for booty against the Phrygians to whose assist- 
ance Priam went. Cy*. B 814. — dvTidvfipoi: cf. bellatrix audetque 
viris concurrere virgo Verg. ^^n. i. 493. 

190. dXX* oiS* ol : hut not even these ; i.e. the Phrygians of 185. 

191. 8c^pov: neuter accusative as adverb with IpUivt, cf. 225. 

192. ctir : for ciirc, with the accent thrown back after elision, cf. 80. — 
t6v8c : anticipated from the rel. clause, see on B 409. 

193. |u(fl»v |Uv ktX. : more exactly describing 08c. — kc^oX^ : as 168. 

194. lS^ir6cu : to look upon. 

196. ktCXos ctg : c/. B 480. The syllable preceding is not length- 
ened as is usual. See on B 190. — imiratXcCrai o^Cxos : comes up to the 
ranks J in order to review them. Acc. to another figure, Agamemnon was 

197. dfivfi<p ktX. : a detailed explanation of icrtXog us. 

199. IrycyavCa : for cjcycyowia. See on iSvii; A 365. 

200. o^m S'av: contrasted with avro^ yc 178; 229.— 'OSvovfi^: 
see on A 138. 

201. IvS^iup: cf B 547. — Kpavafit: cf (HOdicrf) rprjx^T dU* iyoBrj 
Kcvporpoi^ (nurse of men) t 27, scopulos Ithacae, Laertia regna 
Verg. Aen. iii. 272, Ithacam illam in asperrimis saxulis tan* 
qiuam nidulum affixam Cic. de Orat. i. 44. — irrfp: as A 352. 

204. jfcdXa : yes, in truth. 

205. KoC : as 184. — Scvp6 vor viXvOf : sc. before the beginnmg of open 
hostilities, in order to demand the restitution of Helen and the treasure. 
See § 6 a. Odysseus as the most ready in speech and counsel was sent 
with Menelaus who had the greatest interest in the decision. 



124 



COMMENTARY. 



207. {^Cviova: received hospitably. — ^CXfio-a: received at my home, 
entertained. This shows the beginning of a law of nations by which 
embassies enjoy the rights of guests. 

208. : as A 115. Cf. 210 f . — iSdi|v : / learned to know. — fJfita : 
cf. 212 ff. 

209. dXX' ^Tf : the same beginning of the verse as 212, 216, 221. — 
Iv dYpoiUvoio-iv : among the assembled, cf. 55. This was on the occasion 
when the Trojans discussed the demand made by the embassy. The 
poet does not raise the question why Priam did not then make the 
acquaintance of Odysseus. 

210. o^vTMv : sc. to address the people, cf. A 58, 68, etc. The geni- 
tive is partitive, of Menelaus and Odysseus, but is not unlike a genitive 
absolute, see § 19 c, d, — vvf Cpcxcv [vTrcp-] : " towered above " Odysseus, 
cf. 168. Cf. umeris extantem Verg. Aen. vL 668. — «|iovs: acc. of 
specification, cf 227. 

211. ofM^ S' i\a^Jtfu : i.e. as listeners. ' Nominative of the whole,' 
almost a nominative absolute, since only one of the two persons com- 
prised is mentioned in what follows. The sentence begins as if 'OSucr- 
(Tw fi€v, Meve\ao9 $c were to follow. — Yfpap^rcpos : cf 170. Menelaus 
had a short trunk but long legs, and appeared shorter only when they 
were seated. 

212. voo-iv v^cuvov : wove for all, set forth before all. 

213. tvirpox^v: in contrast with the cautious, slow beginning of 
Odysseus. 

214. travpa |Uv : correlative with ovS* d^a/Ao^orocTn/?. diXXa fu£Xa XjLyiiOi 
is shown to be parenthetical by hrd ov irokvfivOo^ which explains iravpa. 
** Few words but to the point." " Saying little indeed (although very 
clear, B 246), for he was not a man of many words ; but saying nothing 
which failed to hit the mark." A Spartan king ought to be laconic I — 
Cf. et Homerus brevem quidem cum iucunditate et pro- 
priam (id enim est non deerrare verbis) et carentem super- 
vacuis eloquentiam Menelao dedit, quae sunt virtutes ge- 
neris illius primi, et ex ore Nestoris dixit dulciorem melle 
profluere sermonem [A 249], qua certe delectatione nihil 
fingi mains potest: sed summam expressurus in Ulixe 
facundiam, et magnitudinem illi vocis et vim orationis 
nivibus hibernis copia verborum atque impetu parem tri- 
buit. cum hoc igitur nemo mortalium contendet, hunc 
ut deum homines intuebuntur Quintilian xii. lo. 64 f. 

215. cl KttC: even if, although he was younger than Odysseus. — yhni: 
in birth, in age. 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



125 



216. dvat(cicv : for the optative expressing indefinite frequency of past 
action, c/. 233. See H. 914 b; G. 1431. 

217. viral tSco-Kf : he always looked down ; with the more definite state- 
ment fcara x^oi^ 'crX., — a sign of meditation. Cf. non protinus est 
erumpeadum, sed danda breyis cogitationi mora: mire 
enim auditurum dicturi cura delectat et index se ipse 
componit. hoc praecipit Homerus Ulixis exemplo, quem 
stetisse oculis in terram defixis immotoque sceptre, prius- 
quam illam eloqueutiae procellam effunderet, dicit Quin- 
tilian xi. 3. 157 f . 

218. o-Kfjirrpov : see on A 58, 234. 

219. &4rTC|j4^ : cf, B 344. — Odysseus made no gesture. 

220. ^ali(9 Kc: potential of the past, credere s, as 223; Attic 1^179 
ay, Cf. 392. — Observe the asyndeton. — (dKorov icrX: a sullen, ill- 
natured kind of a feUow, — Sj^pwm, ktX, : a mere simpleton. For avrais, see 
on A 133. 

221. 6ij om: the hiatus is merely apparent, since ^ is from the same 
root as the Lat. vox. Cf lim, and see § 32 a. 

222. See Quintilian quoted on 214. — lirca: for the length of the 
ultima, see § 59 A. — vi^^iWo-iv #crX. : in contrast with 214. 

223. o6k av #crX. : ''no other mortal could have vied." — Imira: lit. 
after that. — 'OSvo^i: for the use of the name instead of a pronoim, see 
on A 240. Observe the repetition of the name in the same position in 
the following verse, cf, 430, 432, 434. 

224. t6tc: refers to ore 221, made more definite by clSos tSovre^, — 
•S8c : so much as before. They were so moved by his eloquence that they 
forgot his unusual manner. — 'OSvo^os : const, with ctSos. 

225. Atavra : Telamonian Ajax. See on A 138. 

226. rCf T'£pa: as A 8, B 761. 

227. l(oxof : cf B 480. — 'AfrycUv: differs mainly in metrical form 
from *A;(atos above. See on A 79. 

229. ovTos: see on 167. — fpKOs 'Axaunr: see on A 284. Cf oS/909 
A)(ajuav 80, of Nestor ; Ipfm irokqoi H 549 prop of the city, of Sarpedon ; 
'pillar of state,' Milton Par. Lost IL 302. 

230. ISoiuvti^f : see on B 645. Idomeneus is named by Helen with- 
out any question of Priam. At sight of him she cannot suppress the 
memory of a happy past, and hence the longing for her brothers. A 
more mechanical reason for the change in the form of question and 
answer, is that the repetition of Priam's inquiry would become monoto- 
nous. — 0cof ctg: equiv. to ^coeiSi^ 16, ^coetKcXc A 131. 

231. iiY^P^^o*^^ ' ^f' S present serves to paint a picture. 



126 



COMMENTARY. 



232. voXXdici: generally appears in Homer without the final s» see 
§30/. 

233. ficom : for the optative, cf. 216 where the iterative aorist ut6jjk€9 
in the principal clause corresponds to the aorist with iraAAiuct in 232. 

235. Kfv YvoCi|v: potential optative. 5c. if you should ask me. — ii: 
well^ clearly. — kcU r%: cf. A 521. — o«vo|ia: sc. the gen. of the pronoun 
from ovs. 

236. 8oi4: for this form of the numeral, see § 41 b. — Koo-fft^ropc: cf. 
1, A 16. 

237. Castor and Polydeuces are mentioned only in this verse in 
Homer. — w^: toith theJUt^ i.e. in boxing. See on B 418. 

238. afroKiMriYV^Ti* : cf. B 706. — fioi rrX: develops the thought 
of the first word of the verse, c/*. A 2. — |&oC : * dative of likeness ' with 
fjLui, " the same who bore me." — r^^TTip : i.e. Leda. Acc. to the later story, 
Clytaemnestra also was Leda's daughter. See on A 113. 

239. 4nrMnv : cf. A 158, B 524. 

241. avTf : correl. with fuuy see on B 768, § 21/. 

242. aXax(Ki: insults. — SctSitfrH: sc. that they must hear them. — 
ovf(8ca: reproaches. For the use of two nearly synonymous words, see 
on 2. — a |M>i loTiv: which are mine, heaped upon me. 

243. Kdrfx<v : see on B 699. A euphemism for death. " They were 
dead and buried." — ^vo-Ctoot : life-giving. The epithet seems out of place 
here, but is used only in this connection. — Acc. to this story, both Dios- 
curi (Aio9 Kovpoi) were dead. The later form of the story made Castor 
mortal, but Polydeuces immortal; but after the death of Castor, Zeus 
granted the prayer of Polydeuces that both brothers should be together 
alternately in heaven and in Hades. In post-Homeric times, they became 
the patron saints of sailors. 

244. AaKfSaC|Aovi : for the following hiatus, see §§ 27 a, 36 a. — av9i : 
here follows the word that explains it. — The grave of the Dioscuri was 
shown at Therapnae, near Sparta. — 4v irarpCSt : observe the repetition of 
the preposition in this appositive clause. Cf B 722. 

245-313. Priam drives to the field, concludes the treaty with Agamemnon, 
and returns to the city. — This continues the story interrupted at 121. 

245. idipvKfs: see 116 f. — dvd &rrv: up through llios, cf. A 10. — 
OcMv : t.e. those named 103 f . — ^pov : sc. in order to take them to the 
plain. — ^pKia mord: cf. 269, B 124. Faithful, trustworthy pledges of the 

9th. 

246. dpvf rrX. : in apposition with op/cca. — otvov ktX. : equiv. to ewj^pai- 
vovra ktX Cf <wine that maketh glad the heart of man,' Psalms 
civ. 15. 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



127 



247. imtf icrX.: the usual means of carrying wine on journeys. 
Wine was stored at home in great jars. — Kopirov &povpT|s : elsewhere only 
of grain. 

248. 'I8aSos: the most honored of Priam's heralds and his personal 
attendant. For the quantity of the ultima, see § 50 /. 

249. T^povra : ue. Priam, whom they were sent to summon. " vcLpcvrdr 
|uvos : sc. after ascending the tower by the Scaean gate (149). 

250. opo^: see on 103; arise. Observe the following < asyndeton.' — 
Aao|uSovrUlST| : for the formation of the patronymic, see § 39 J. — £pio^roi : 
the princes, as 274. 

252. Td|ii|Tf : sc. thou and the Achaean princes. — See on 105. 
253-255 = 136-138, mutatis mutandis. 

254. liax^o-ovTcu : will Jight. This marks simply the future fact. 

255. I'TOiTo : the optative here, as 74, expresses a wish. The impera- 
tive is used in the corresponding passages, 72, 93, 282, because this 
thought is presented there as a demand or condition. 

256-258 = 73-75, with slight changes. 

257. Worrcu: future, cf. 137. The future is better suited than the 
imperative to the lips of the herald. 

259. pixt^ • ^® feared for his son's life, cf. 306 fL— IroCpQif : his 
attendants. The king was never unattended. 

260. M0OVTO : ue, they hastened to the palace, harnessed the horses, 
and brought them to the Gate. Priam descended from the tower to 
mount the chariot. We miss here the usual epic fulness of detail. 

261. lava] : const, with ifirf. — Kard #ctX : as 311. The reins were 
tied to the front rim of the chariot. The king now untied them and 
drew them back toward himself. 

262. vdp 8^ ol : lit. cU his side for him. Trap being adv. I.e. so as to 
stand beside him. — SC^pov : acc. of * limit of motion,' cf 407, see on A 254. 

263. SkouSv : only here as substantive, without irvAoi. See on A 54. 
— Ix^v: heldf guided. 

264. lurd: see on A 222. 

265. I{ tinrwv : from their chariot ; equiv. to i( ox^w 29. 

266. Is yArvov: see on 69. — lonx^wvro: went, as B 92. 

267. J^wTO : arose, hastened to greet the Trojan princes, cf opcreo 250. 
— lirciTa : follows the verb. 

268. [dm] : sc. wpwro. — id|pvKct : sc. of both armies, cf 274. 

269. dipKia : see on 245. 

270. fUo^ov : not like Kepwavro, but mingled the wine of both parties 
to the libation. In solemn sacrifices, the wine was not mixed with water, 
hence <nrov&u iKfngroi B 341. — Poo-bXcvoav : for the princes of Trojans and 



128 



COMMENTARY. 



Achaeans. Observe that no priests are mentioned in this connection. — 
M x^^MV : see on A 449. 

271. x^^pc^*^^ ' would be more exact. 

272. vdp KovXf6v : along by the sheath. — aUv : as commander and high- 
priest of the army, Agamemnon used this knife often at sacrifices. — 
&»pTo : from dcipoi, cf, &ap sword^ aofyn^p sword-strap. 

273. dpvAv : as the principal idea, it is placed before kc^oXcov which 
it lunits. See 103 f . 

274. vft|uiy: sc. rpCxo^* They distributed the wool cut from the 
victims' heads as a symbol that all the chiefs present took part in the 
treaty, swearing by the victim. This sacrifice was without fire, as was 
most freq. in the case of treaties and reconciliations. 

275. C/. A450. 

276. Agamemnon invokes the divinities of the heavens, the earth, and 
the regions beneath the earth. Cf. esto nunc Sol testis, et haec 
mihi Terra precanti, | . . . et pater omnipotens, et tu Satur- 
nia coniuz, . . . tuque inclute Mavors, | • . • fontesque 
fluviosque, voco, quaeque aetheris alti | religio, et quae 
caeruleo sunt numina ponto Yerg. Aen. xii. 176 ft. — "ISiiOcv: 
Zeus had a sacred grove and an altar on Mt. Ida, and ruled thence as 
god of the country. The pious soul sought and found the divinity near 
at hand, esp. on mountain summits. — ici>8iOYf kt\.: cf. lupiter opti- 
mus maximus. See on B 412. 

277. i{^Xi«s: nominative as vocative. This construction is rare. — 
irdvT I^Mp^ icrX. : Helios, accomplishing daily his course in the heavens, 
is fitted to be a witness to solemn compacts. 

278. voTOfioC : the Trojan river-gods (Scamander and Simois), as near 
at hand, are invoked as witnesses. A priest (dpi^n/p) of the Scamander 
is mentioned (E 77 f.). — koI ot : const, with rivwrOov. The dual is used 
with reference to Hades and Persephone. 

279. o Tit: observe the distributive singular, after the plural. For 
the form, see § 42 o. — oitdcrv^ : for the aorist subjunctive, cf. A 554. 

280. (fcdprvpoi : as A 338, B 302. 

282. airos k^irn : let him keep. — icHjjtaTa : see on 70. 

283. vc^|u9a: the subjunctive expresses the speaker's resolve, not 
unlike the ordinary * hortatory * subjunctive. 

284. £av06s : from the color of his hair. See on A 197. 

285. Tpwas icrX. : then shall the Trojans restore etc. airoSovvac is par- 
allel to €Xera>, cf. B 413. 

286. Tiift^v: equiv. to iroivqv recompense. Cf. A 159. — t|v nva: sc 
dirorivc/uv. 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



129 



287. KdC: also. Const, with iaao/Uvouriv. — irlXi|Tai: shall be. This 
is strictly a final clause. — This exemplary penalty was to serve as a 
precedent in later times and warn men against committing such deeds. 

28a npCofLos ktX. : as A 255. 

289. ovK ^ikwaxv : ovk is used, not fii^, though in a conditional clause, 
since the negative and verb form but one idea, are unwilling, refuse, Cf, 
av xp^^fV — 'AVc{dvSpoio : prob. gen. abs. ; although it could be 
construed with rifi-qv. See § 19 d fi. 

290. avrdp : on the other hand, introduces the adversative apodosis, cf. 
A 133, si tua re subita consilia torpent, at tu mea sequere 
Livy i. 41. See § 21 a. 

291. tIXos voXIfioio : i.e. the victory. See on B 122. — KL\€lm : see on 
A 26. Or it may be pres. subjv. of kix^/u. 

292. r{: see on A 219. — <rro|idxovs: obj. of a^ro Toftc. — X<^K<p: equiv. 
to /idxoApav 271. 

294. Ov|Aoii : life, as A 593. — 8cvo|Uvovs : gives the reason for aoWpoF- 
Ttts. — i&lvos : force, cf . ficv€a 8. 

295. &<^v<r(r6|uvoi : drawing (dipping) for themselves. The act of dip- 
ping and pouring continued until each had poured his libation. Else- 
where drawing wine was part of the herald's office. See on A 471. 

296. Ikx<ov : sc. out of their cups, upon the ground. — aUiYcWrnoav : 
cf ^€ol auv coirr€9 A 290. 

297. C/. B271. 

299. irpdTfpot: comp., since only two parties are in question, cf. 351. 
— vvf> ^pKia: "contrary to the compacts." Cf A 67, 236, 271. — in||i^- 
viiav : intransitive. " Commit an act of hostility." The optative is used 
in the subordinate clause, with the optative of wishing in the principal 
clause, to express a mere conception of the mind. 

300. M o-+t kt\. : thus may for them etc. The personal pronoun is 
used instead of the demonstrative, since the protasis has hypothetical 
force. Cf B 393. — ws ^Sc otvos: symbolical actions were customary in 
curses and conjurations. Cf (fetialis) 'si prior defexit publico 
consilio dolo malo, tum illo die, luppiter, populum Roma- 
num sic ferito ut ego hunc porcum hie hodie feriam.' . . . 
id ubi dixit, porcum saxo silice percussit, Livy i. 24; (Han- 
nibal) eaque ut rata scirent fore agnum laeva manu dextera 
silicem retinens, si falleret, lovem ceterosque precatus 
deos, ita se mactarent, quern ad modum ipse agnum mao- 
tasset, secundum precationem caput pecudis saxo elisit, 
lb. xxi. 45 ; < As sinks that blood stream in the earth, | So may his heart's 
blood dreneh his hearth,' Scott Lady of the Lake iii. 1. 



130 



COMMENTARY. 



301. avrfiv koI rwimw : the genitive depends on cyKc^oXo^y although 
(not o-^cW) has preceded. This clause forms an extension of the 

original thought. — aXXoun. 8a|uCiv: '^may they be made the slaves of 
others.'' — This prayer contains four verses, like the prayers of 320 ff., 
351ff., 365ff. See on 161. 

302. C/. B419. 

303. Totoi. : const, with /juera Icurer, cf, 96. — Aap8av(fii|t : Friam was 
in the fifth generation from Dardanus, Y 215 ff. See p. x. of the Vocab^ 
ulary. — For the use of the patronymic, see § 39 m. 

304 = 86. 

305. i{vf|i6covav : the epithet is well deserved acc. to Dr. Schliemann, 
who in his excavations at Hissarlik was much disturbed by the constant 
winds which drove the dust into the eyes of the workmen. He thinks 
that such continual wind-storms are known nowhere else on earth. < The 
winds blew about us with such force that we often felt as if our whole 
settlement might be hurled down the precipice.' 

306. tti|r: const, with cl/u. — ov irw: in no way. For irctf as irdkt see 
§ 30 /. — rX^(ro|Mu : cf. rerXtfKa^ A 228. — h o^aXfioSo^v : see on A 587. 
— Friam fears the death of his son, as 259. — Vergil imitates: non 
pugnam aspicere hanc oculis, non foedera, possum Aen. 
xii. 151. 

308. Zcvs ktX. : " Zeus doubtless knows, but I do not." 

309. 9avdTOio t^Xos : a < periphrasis ' for ^raros. — irfirpM|iivov IvrCv : 

equiv. to iriirpwroL, cf. rercXc<r/Lici/09 ifrrlv A 388. 

310. apvas O^o : sc. in' order to take back with him the two slaugh- 
tered lambs which he had brought. The flesh of the victim sacrificed to 
confirm an oath was not eaten, since a curse rested upon it, but was 
buried. Frob. the Achaeans cast their victim into the sea, being unable 
to bury it in their own land. 

311 f . = 261 f . — ipaivf : for the imperfect, see on A 25. 
313. cu^ppoi : cf. iraXtvopaos 33. — dvoWovro : see on B 113. 
314^82. The duel. Paris is rescued from death by Aphrodite, and 
carried to his home. 

315. SiC|Urpcov : they measured off the ground for the combat, and the 
distance at which they were to hurl their spears, cf. 344. Cf, campum 
ad certamen magnae sub moenibus urbis | dimensi Rutu- 
lique viri Teucrique parabant Verg. -4cn. xii. 116 f. 

316. icX^povf irdXXov : ** they arranged the casting of lots." This is 
expressed more definitely in 324. The KXijpoi were bits of wood or stone, 
marked with some sign so as to be recognized. The prayer was offered 
while the lots were shaken. 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



131 



317. irpdoecv: before, first. Cf. 346, B 359, irporcpos 351. — d+€(ti: 
optative in indirect discourse, representing tiie subjunctive of deliberation 
in direct discourse. Cf. A 191. 

3ia x<^P^ dWoxov : equiv. to xdpa% dyaoxoKTcS) see § 21 A. For the 
attitude, cf. A 450. See Vocabulary s. v. ;(ccp. 

319 = 297. 320 = 276. 

321. rdSc Ifrya : these troubles here, ue. this war. — I0i|icfir : caused, as 
A 2. — Both armies seem to unite in wishing the death of Paris. 

322. S6s : for Sos with the inf. in prayers, cf 351. — d«iro^C|uvov Svvoi : 
equiv. to airwtSCaBaA koL SOvoi. For the epic fulness of expression, see 
on A 88. — "AiSos : see on A 3. 

324. KopvOaCoXot : see on B 816. 

325. of opdwv : xoith averted face, in order to escape the suspicion of 
favoring his brother. — Ildptos : see on 16. — Ik ^pomv : the lot was not 
drawn, but cast^ thrown out. 

326. ol yJh : i.e. Trojans and Achaeans, who had stood during the sacri- 
fice. Perhaps they had not been seated before {cf 78, 84, 113 f., 231, 
250, 267), although they long ago had dismounted from their chariots 
and laid their armor upon the ground. — Kard o^Cxo« : according to ranks^ 
in ranks. 

327. licfiTo : grammatically and in sense, construed only with rcv^co, 
although Kccfutt often is the passive of rtOrffu. For the * zeugma,' see on 
irpos SStfUL A 533. 

328. d|&f Mffcomv : standing expression in the case of the principal 
parts of the warrior's equipment : breastplate, sword (as 334), and shield. — 
IS^oYTo : Paris had entered the conflict as a light-armed warrior, see on 17. 

330. The poet presents a picture of the preparations for battle. The 
complete armament of the Homeric warrior consisted in the six pieces 
here enumerated, which are always mentioned in the same order before 
an important conflict. — Kn||ftt8as : see on A 17. 

331. KoXds : for the order of words, see § 11 j. 

333. oto Koo-iTV^TOio : sc. since he himself had appeared without a 
cuirass. — Avxdovos : Lycaon had been captured by Achilles and sold as 
a slave to the king of Lemnos. Being ransomed thence, he returned to 
Troy a week before the events narrated in this book ; but twelve days 
after his return, he met Achilles again and was slain by him, $ 34 ff. — 
•qpi&oo^ S* : but he fitted it to himself; he changed the length of the 
straps, buckling it to suit his own form. 

334 = B 45. 

335. x^Kcov : prominence is given to an epithet of the whole sword, 
after the decoration of the hilt has been mentioned in fyyvpwiXoy. 



132 



COMMENTARY. 



o^Kot : the strap which aided the arm in supporting the heavy shield was 
thrown over the shoulder, see on B 388. Thus the shield was taken up 
hefore tiie plumed helmet was donned. 

336. Kui4i|v : originally a head-covering of dogskin, then helmet. 

337. tinravptv: cf, iTnro&ureC'qi 369, aere caput fulgens, crista- 
que hirsutus equina Yerg. ^en. x. 869. — 8civ6v: cognate ace, adv, 
with ^vcvcv, cf. 342. 

338. iraXd|jii|^iv : here dative ; it is in the genitive 368. See § 33 a. — 
&|W|pciv : for the l^■movable, cf r}(rK€iv 388. See § 30 k. 

339. «s S* avrfl»s : and thus in like manner. See § 42 ^. — McWXaos : 
Menelaus came forth to battle equipped with armor (29), but put it off 
as the rest did, 114. — dp^ios : a short form of ^l/>i/t<^iXo9. See on 21. — 
Irrta : equiv. to tcvxco, chiefly of defensive armor. 

340. Ixdri p6fv o|frCXov : on either side of the throng. 
341 = 266. 344. 8katUTfnir<p : see on 315. 

345. KoWorrc : subord. to (r€iovT€. 346. irp6a^c : as 317. 

347. Cf. 356. — irdvToo-' Horr\v : a standing formula, at the close of the 
verse. Strictly used of the smaller circular shields (d^nrtSas cvkvkXovs E 
453), in distinction from the large oval o-cucos- But the shield of Paris is 
called (raK09 335, and a<nrk 356. 

348. o*84: but not. — lppii£fv: broke through the shield. — x<^k6S' 
bronze point of the lance, cf. X"^^ below. — ol : refers to xaA,ico9- 

349. &pyvTQ xakKtf : arose with his lancCy " raised himself to hurl his 
lance." Cf. Styaxrxofjuevo^ 362, altior exurgens Verg. Aen. x5. 697, 
corpore toto | alte sublatum consurgit Turnus in ensem. 
. . . at perfidus ensis | frangitur i6. xii. 728 ff. 

350. Iircvfdfuvos : uttering a prayer as he did so." 

351. Zcv ava : the vocative form Sya is found in Homer only in this 
phrase ; elsewhere, ava^, as B 284, 434. — 80s tCowOcu o kt\. : equiv. to 
80s fuH TtaaxrOai tovtov os kt\. The rel. clause o fi€ ktX. represents a 
noun as the object of rlacurOai. — irpinpos : cf. 299. 

352. 8C0V : a standing epithet, denoting nobility of descent and beauty. 
It is here used without any special reference to the circumstances of the 
case. See on A 7. These * ornamental epithets * are sometimes put into 
the mouth of a foe. — 'AXc£av8pov : is the object of rCtraxrOajL. This makes 
the preceding reL clause more parenthetical than if this proper name had 
been attracted to the construction of. the rel. clause, as Aao&ucqy 124. — 
Kol . . . 8c4it{vai : a more definite expression of the thought of riiraxrBaA. 

353. t\s : many a one, cf. B 271. — kaC : as 287. 

354. ^ Kcv ktX. : explanatory of ^ayoSo/coK. — +iX6Ttfrtt : hospUaliiy, cf 
207. 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



133 



355. offirciraX^v : reduplicated aor. (§43e) from drairoAAoK Swinging 
backy i,e, drawing back for the throw. Cf, adducto contortum 
hastile lacerto | immittit Verg. Aen. xi. 561 f. 

356. e/. 347. 

357. 8u£: with long c at the beginning of the verse. — ^ivi^s: 
the outer layer of the shield was a plate of bronze. — jppi|Aov : weighty, 
mighty. 

358. iji^ipcurTo: was thrust, by the force of the throw. Flpf. from 
ipei&fo, used almost like an aorist. 

359. dvTiKfiiis : construe closely with what follows. 

360. iicXCv6-r| : he bent aside. — i|\ci>aTo : for the 1st aorist without 
tense-sign, see § 48 h, 

362. dva(rx4|uvos : drawing up his arm, in order to give a heavier blow; 
cf, 349. — ^oXov: the metal ridge in which the horsehair was arranged 
like a mane. — afr<p: const, with 8uiTpv<l>€v, about itself, ue. about 
the <^aXo9* 

363. rpixOa Tf koI kt\. : a descriptive expression, see § 13 6. — rt xaC : 
cf. A 128, B 346 and notes. — Starpw+^v : cf. Verg. Aen. xii. 730, quoted 
on 349. 

365. o-cto o\o(&Tfpos : Zeus ^uvuk, the guardian of hospitality, had not 
avenged the privileges that Paris had abused. — Such reproaches of the 
divinity are uttered only in outbreaks of momentary vexation. Cf. 
Bill. 

366. ^ofitpr ktX. : see on B 37. — KaKdrrirof : causal genitive. For the 
wrong which he did me. 

367. vvv 8^: see on A 354. — iyn: from Sywfu. — U: const, with 

368. irAwov : predicate nominative. — o^8j 8c4ickr<ra : marks the result 
of both preceding clauses. 

369. K^pvOos : for the genitive, cf. iavov 385, yovynw A 500. 

370. IXkc icrX. : "he seized Paris by the helmet, turned him about, 
and strove to draw him into the midst of the Achaeans." Of course the 
helmet-strap (l/iik) under the chin of Paris, choked the wearer. 

371. iroX^KC<rTos : richly embroidered. 

372. This verse explains xnro Seipijv. — vir &v6cpcAvos: as A 501. — 
oxc^ : as holder. Predicate with 09. 

375. t( : in the rapid narration, the rel. const, is used here, where a 
new sentence would be expected. Or this rj may be called demonstrative, 
with no conjunction to connect it with the preceding verse. — t+i Kra|U- 
voio : such leather would be stronger than that from a diseased animal. 
For the aorist middle used as passive, see § 50 </. 



134 



COMMENTARY. 



376. T|n4cOUia: the following hiatus is justified, as falling at the 
fern, caesura of the third foot, see § 27 6. — ^ cvvrro jcrX. : ue. it re- 
mained in his hand. — mx<C|| : thick. 

378. ^ti|r' imSiWjo^ : ue, he swung the helmet before he threw it. — 
lO^Avuw : cf. B 875. 

379. i &^ : for the hiatus, see on A 333. 

380. iyxn jcrX. : emphatic at the beginning of the verse, and the close 
of the sentence, cf, /SoAAc A 52. Const, with ciropotKre. — ^fMrafi : the 
poet recognizes no chance rescue ; see on A 8. 

381. jkCa ktX, : easily, as only a god can." — lKaXin|pc 8c : "and made 
him invisible." 

382. KoS An : cf. koButov 68. — iv eoXdii^ : in his chamber, cf 391. 
383-420. Aphrodite conducts Helen from the Scctean Gate to her home. 

383. KoXlovo-a : future participle, expressing purpose. 

384. Tpt*a( : %.€. women who had come to view the combat, as 420 ; 
see on 149. 

385. vcKTop^ov: used like ofiPpoaw as divine, heavenly, of charming 
grace and beauty. — Mvafy : plucked. 

386. const, with wpoa-mvcv, cf 389. For the quantity, before 
a lost consonant, see § 59 y. — iroXaiTcvli : the adj. strengthens the noun. 
— irpoo^mv: always used of words that follow immediately, or sepa- 
rated only by a parenthetical clause. 

387. <lpoK^|if : explained by the following clause. 

388. Vfo-KCiv : contracted from 170-iccev. — |fcdXMrra #crX. : the rel. const, 
is abandoned, cf A 79, 162. — This shows why Aphrodite took the form 
of this old woman. — ^iXicoKcv : sc. 'EXcn;. 

389. Tt |nv ktX. : cf B 22, 795. 

390. 8cV ' see on 130. 

391. mtvos : used much like a dem. adv., there. — iS y*: is he. 

392. 0^8^ K< ^aljfi : potential, nor would you think. Not as 220. 

393. dvSpl |uix*F^^v* equiv. to iK fJiaxrp. — x^P^^^- ^^^^^e 
of the verse in contrast with /mxqo-afjxyov, 

394. Ipxco^oi : " ready to go to the dance," so beautiful and vigorous 
is he. — Wov ktX. : i,e. he is in as merry a humor as if he had just enjoyed 
a dance. The participle has the principal thought. 

395. Cf. B 142. — (K»|iov ^pivcv: aroused her anger, by the unworthy 
suggestion. 

396 f . Kol ^ : and so. This pa is resumed by the olpa of the 
apodosis, 398. — 8cipi|v rrtfita ktX. : these parts were unchanged by the 
transformation (386-389); the divinities retained their characteristics 
even under a disguise, except when they desired to make themselves 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



135 



entirely unrecognizable by mortals. — All but Helen saw only the old 
woman. 

398. ML|ipv|orcir : cf, A 199. Wonder mingled with dread came over 
her, fearing some new device of Aphrodite who had already led her far 
from her Spartan home. — liros #crX. : as A 361. 

399. 8«u|ioirCt|: cruel divinity. See on B 190. — ravra: cognate acc. 
with ^c/Mnrcuav which takes /U as direct object. " To trick me with 
these deceits." Cf. rovro v/jlos i^mr^fmi Xen. An. v. 7. 6. 

400. if: surely; with mocking irony. — irpoWpt* • 8HU farther from Lace- 
daemon. — voXlmv: const, with in/, <4nto any one of these cities." See 
H.757; G. 168, n. 3. 

401. ^pvyljfi : construe with ttoKlwv. 

402. Kal mtOt: there also. Just as Alexander in Ilios. — |up6ira»v: as 
A 250. 

403. ovvfKa Srf vvv: this introduces sarcastically the reason for the 
conjecture of 400 f. " Since now, as it seems, I cannot remain longer 
with your favorite Paris." 

404. owycp^v : see on 173. 

405. To^viKa St{ ktX. : again a sarcastic tone. This is closely connected 
with the causal rel. sentence, as is shown by the repetition of the particles 
Bvf vvv. Thus the thought returns to 399. — SoXo^poWovo'a : ie, in pre- 
tending that Paris summons her, 390. 

406. irap' air6v : by himself; contrasted with Scvpo 405. Leave me 
alone." The < asyndeton* marks her excitement. — •iwv ktX.: abandon 
the path of the gods, "give up thine immortality." The expression is 
suggested doubtless by the following verse which was already before her 
mind. 

407. ''OXv|fcirov : the * limit of motion.' 

406. tnpX Kctvov: about him, at his side. — oCtvc: endure woe, <<bear all 
the troubles of human life." — i ^Xam^ : watch him, sc. that he does not 
escape thee or prove unfaithful to thee. 

409. •voi^crcrcu: aor. subjv. with Ci9 o icc, cf. B 332. — o -yc: see on A 
97. For its position in the second member of the sentence, as B 664, cf 
iroXXa y 6 y Iv 7rovr<p wdffcv aXyea. a 4, nunc dextra ingeminans 
ictus, nunc ille sinistra Yerg. Aen. v. 457. 

410. vf|uora<i|Tov #crX. : parenthetical. — vc|u<ron|T6v : cf. 156, B 223. 

411. KcCvov: indicates contempt or abhorrence. — wpwvUniera: to pre^ 
pare, to share. — 8^ : the clause is causal in effect. — oir(<r<r«» : hereafter. 

412. |u»|fc^<rovTcu : sc. if I give myself to this frivolous coward after 
the decision by the duel. The fut. is used (more definite than the poten- 
tial opt.) although the supposition at the basis of this expectation is 



136 



COMMENTARY. 



negatived (ovic cT/u 410). — fx* kt\.: "and yet I have already" etc. — 
Acpixa: C/B 246, 796. 

413. x^^^cH*^ • foiling into a rage, cf, 6)($T^aq A 517. The middle 
does not differ greatly from the passive. Cf. xoAcD^cts A 9 ; see § 50 (/. 

414. crxcrXCti : disyllabic, with synizesis of ltj. See on 'Icrrtoiav B 537. 

— |u9cC«» [/ic^J : for the subjv., cf A 28. For the form, cf Kixetco A 26. 

415. r6f: see on B 330. — dvcx^P*: ^oi** subjv. Conceive violent 
haired. — v^: opposed to the future, till now. — Imra^yXa: furioxisly ; cf. 
(uytt>s 158. — ^(Xiio-a : came to love you, " bestowed my love upon you." 

416. d|i4o^P«*v: explained by TpiUxtw xal Aavaxav. — |fct|TCot>|iat : aor. 
subjv., still dependent on /at^. — ^x^^ ^^^pd : grievous hates, which would 
be destructive to Helen. — Cf ilia (t.e. Helen) sibi infestos eversa 
ob Pergama Teucros | et poenas Danaum, et deserti coniu- 
gis iras, | praemetuens Yerg. Aen. ii. 571 ff. 

417. r« 8^ . . . ^Xt|cu : an independent addition, as is shown by Kty, 
in order to explain the effect of \vypa. For the subjunctive with 
Kfv, see on A 137. — otrov: cognate accusative. 

418. IScuTiv : see on A 33. Helen does not yield until after the stern- 
est threat. 

419. Karao^ofUmfi : wrapping herself cf KaXwjfafihfrf 141. 

420. UpwU : see on 384. — XcCOcv : sc. pSm, as she departed with her 
two maids (cf 143, 422). — Helen, in her shame, veiled herself silently, 
and foUowed the goddess without attracting attention. — t|pxi : as A 495. 

— 8a(|iMir : nowhere else in Homer of a definite divinity. 
421-447. Helen and Paris. 

421. 86|ioir : on the citadel of Ilios, near the dwellings of Priam and 
Hector. 

422. &)&^C«oXoi : i.e. the two who had accompanied her, 143. 

423. kCc : i.e. following Aphrodite, cf. 420. 

424. : for her. — SC^pov : a low seat without a back. — ^Xovcra : prior 
in time to KaT€$rjK€ ^cpovo-a. Observe the distinction between the aor. 
and present participles. 

425. dvrC' 'AXcfavSpoio : acc. to 391, Alexander was on the bed, but 
this is disregarded in the following narration, cf. apx^ \€xo(rSe Kiiav 447. 

— Oca: this is added to give prominence to her condescension in perform- 
ing a maid's duties. — ^povo-a: for the use of the participle, see on i<av 
A 138. 

426. Ko^pi| Ai6s : generally of Athena. Cf. Kovfnjjv Bpto^o? A 392. 

427. irdXiv : hack, away from Paris, here as a sign of her displeasure. 
Cf talia dicentem iamdudum aversa tuetur Verg. Aen. iv. 
S62. — ^Urcm : for the form, cf B 246. 



THIRD BOOK OF THE ILIAD. 



137 



428. t[Xv6cs: anexclamatioD. She reproaches him for his return, c/I B 23. 

429. Sa|uCs : with dat. of the agent, as 301. — vp^rcpos: see on 140. 

430. t| |Uv Si) #crX. : with disdainful mockery. Trtdy thou wast wont to 
ho<ist, 

431. <rf : added with emphasis, as B 164. 

432. &XX' tOi vvv: an ironical exhortation. The following ^asynde- 
ton' is usual. — irpoKdXccrcrai : challenge^ call forth to meet thee. Middle, as 
19. — McWXaov: observe the emphatic repetition of the name with the 
same epithet, in the same position in the verse as 430. See on 223. 

433. &XXd #crX. : Helen now speaks in earnest. — 1^^ f^i cf, X 173. — • 
" But / advise you." 

434. va^c(r6ai: cease for ever. Present infinitives are used also to 
explain this injunction. — (avOip : cf 284. 

435. dvrCPiov: for the construction, cf B 121, 452. — ir6Xc|iov : for the 
cognate accusative, see on B 788. 

436. ira>s rdxa : lest in some way, soon, — vir a^oO 8ovp£ : hy the spear 
of this very man. For the dative with vtto, cf B 860 and note. 

437. |fcv6oi<riv : construe with Trpoo-ceiTrev. 

438. ev|ji6v: in partitive appos. with fiL Cf 35, 442; see on A 362. 

439. |icv -ydp : always in this order ; never yap fiey. — <rvv 'AB^yq : hy 
the aid of Athena. This diminishes the personal credit of Meuelaus for 
his success. 

440. avns : another time, as A 140. — ky& : sc. vi#ci7(rci>. — irapcl cUrC : 
more freq. in this sense is mLpixrraxrBoA. — ijntv: i,e, with Paris and his 
countrymen. 

441. Tpavc(o|uv : aor. pass, subjv. from rifyirta, see §§ 31, 51 d, — 
civi|OlvTc : in the English idiom, this would be in the same const, as rpa- 
irciofAjev, Cf, B 113 ; see § 21 i. 

442. (38c: so completely, sc. as now (446). Cf B 802.— fpos ^plvas 
4|i^K^v^cv : see on A 103. 

443. oiS' ^Tc : not even then when. 

444. lirXcov Iv Wjccrcri : " was on the voyage." 

445. Kpavdt) : perhaps this name was invented for the situation, cf 
201 ; at least the ancients were completely at a loss concerning it. In the 
second century of our era, with reference to this passage, the name 
Kfiovdif was given to a small island in the Laconian gulf. 

446. : refers to wSe 442. 

447. apx< • made the beginning, began ; with a supplementary paiiic., 
KuLv, as B 378. — ctircro : the fear of Aphrodite's anger had its effect, in 
spite of 428 ff . — The whole scene, from 382, characterizes the sensual 
frivolity of Paris. 



138 



COMMENTARY. 



446-461. Menelaus seeks Paris in vain. Agamemnon claims the victory 
and demands the restitution of Helen. 
446. rJ^ &pa: so these two. 

449. The story returns to the pomt where Aphrodite interposed, 380. 
— df|uXoir: sc. T/mW. — Oi|pl loiiOlt: like to a wild beast in fury and 
power. 

450. cC vov ItraBf^c^ : for the opt., see H. 907 ; Good. 1420. If he 
but might catch sight of him somewhere. — ItociSIa : for the * synizesis,' cf. 27. 

451. ov Tit SvvaTo SctEot : the logical proof of this statement is given 
below. " They would have pointed him out, if they could," 

452. rdn : i.e. when he sought him. 

453. They did not conceal him through love (cf. 321 ff.), nor would 
they have concealed him if any one had seen him." 

454. Ki|p( : dat. of likeness with taov. For the comparison, cf. A 228. 
— luXaCvn: cf morti atrae Hor. Carm. i. 28. 13, post equitem 
sedet atra cura i6. iii. i.40. 

455. KcU : also. A standing expression, generally referring to previous 
speakers. 

456. Cf 86. — AdpSavoi : see on B 819. 

457. : cu you see, surely. — ^vtroi: belongs evidently. 

456. 'AfY<^v: as B 161. Cf. ornatus Argivae HelenaeVerg. 
Aen. i. 650. 

459. ri|ii|v ktX. : cf. 286. 
460 = 287. 

461. M {vfov: cf hrev^ik'qarav k 22. — The poet does not tell how 
Hector and the other Trojans received this demand, but implies that they 
allowed it to be just. — For the conclusion of the episode, see § 7 . 

The Fourth Book opens with a Council of the Gods in the great hall 
of Zeus on Olympus. They have watched what has been done on the 
Trojan plain, and recognize the fact that Menelaus has won the victory. 
Zeus proposes that the provisions of the treaty be carried into effect, — 
that the Achaeans withdraw to their homes, taking with them Helen and 
her treasures. But Hera and Athena cannot consent to any peace which 
would leave unsacked the hated city of Troy, and they instigate a Lycian 
archer, a Trojan ally, to break the truce by wounding Menelaus. Then 
the strife begins anew. 



VOCABULARY. 



PREFACE. 



This vocabulary has not been compiled from other dictionaries, 
but has been made from the Iliad itself. The maker has endeav- 
ored to be concise, — to give nothing but what is important for 
the accurate and appreciative reading of the poem, — and yet 
to show the original and derived meanings of the words, and to 
suggest translations which should be both simple and dignified. 
Much space has been saved by omitting the words and forms 
which are not found in the first six books of the Iliad. 

A concise special vocabulary to the Homeric Poems, or to parts 
of them, is open to far fewer objections than a similar vocabulary 
to any other work of Greek literature, since the words are found 
more nearly in their original significations and constructions. Ko 
attempt has been made in this work to tell the history of each 
word in pre-Hellenic and post-Homeric times. Even the most 
complete Homeric dictionary cannot entirely supersede the large 
general lexicons, but a confident hope is felt that the concise 
form of this vocabulary will save much time for the beginner in 
Homer. The beginner meets many unusual words. Whether he 
uses a large or a small dictionary, he will be satisfied, in most 
cases, with learning the meaning and construction of the new 
word ; and generally this is enough for him. The teachers who 
insist on the use of the unabridged lexicon of Liddell and Scott 
by elementary classes in Homer forget the word of Hesiod, ovS* 
IxraxTiv oa-i^ irXiov yfuxrv iravros, while this vocabulary will give fuller 
and better information about Homeric words and forms than the 
abridged edition of Liddell and Scott's lexicon. A student who 



iv 



PREFACE. 



is beginning Homer does not absolutely need to know the later 
history of each word, although the student of Plato does need to 
remember the Homeric usage. 

In making this vocabulary, Seber's Index Homericus^ Froh- 
wein's Verbum Homericumy Ebeling's great Leaeicon Homericum^ 
and Seiler-Capelle's Worterbuch uber die Gedichte des Homeros 
were very useful. Mr. W. Irving Hunt, tutor in Greek in Yale 
College, rendered important assistance, and kindly took upon 
himself the verification of the completeness of the work. 

Cognate or illustrative forms are placed in parentheses. Corre- 
sponding Attic forms are placed in square brackets. 

References have been added to proper names, in order to serve 
as an index ; also to other important words, especially to those 
which occur but once in the Homeric Poems (airai dp^fUva), 

Yalk Oollbos, Jan. 21, 1889. 



CONTENTS OF THE ILIAD IN GREEK HEXAMETERS * 



1. ''A\<^a • Xtra? Xpvaov, Xoljjlov arparov, e^Oo^ avaxrcov. 

2. ^rjra S' oveipov ej^et, ayopijv, koX vrja<; dpiOfiei, 

3. Tdfifia S* dp* afjuf) 'EXeviy? oioiv fioOo^ iarlv aKolraiv, 

4. AeXra • 0€&v a/yopij, opKtov %ucrt9, "Apeo^ dpyfj, 

5. EI • fidXKet ¥iv0€peiav ''Aprjd re TvBio^ vio^. 

6. Zrjra S' dp* ^AvSpofid^V^ Kol^l&KTopo^ ear oapiarv^. 

7. ^Hra S' • A?a9 TroXe/A^fe /^oV^ jiovo^ "l^KTopi Biq), 

8. 0^Ta • ^€6)1/ a^oprj, Tpaxov xpdrof;, ^'l^KTopo^ ev^o<i. 

9. 'Efecr/iy S' 'A^iXiyo? direiOeo^ iarlv 'Iwra. 

10. KaTTTra Se • ^Pija-ov rrjv Ke^aXr^v eke TuSeo? vio^, 

11. AdfifiBa S* • dpiarrja^: AavaS>v fidXov ''l^KTopo^ dvhpe^. 

12. MO • Tpdxov TraXdfiTjai Kanjpnre Tel'xp^ ^A'xai&p. 

13. NO B4 • IIoo-e^SaG)!/ Aai/aot? xpdro^ ciiraae XdOprf, 

14. HeZ • KpoviBrjp Xe'xeeaai koX virvtp fjira^ev '^Upv- 

15. OS • Kpoi//&79 K€)(^6\a)To TIoa-eiBdcovt koI 

16. IXet* TldrpoKkov hre^vev ^ Aprjiov^'l^KTopo^ oX')(j^ri. 

17. 'Pw • Aamol Tpwe? re v€kvv irepi ')(€lpa<i efita-yov, 

18. ^lyfia • 0^*9 *A^tX^4 Trap' 'H<^aAcrToi; <f>€p€V OTrXa. 

19. TaO 8' • aTrikrjye ')(p\oio koX exdope Bto^ 'Aj^(-XXev9. 

20. *T • fjuaKdpayp epi^ &pTo, (f>€p€i 8' iirl Kdpro^; 'A^atot?. 

21. ^el • fi6yo<i AlaKihao irap fjiova^ TroTafiolo. 

22. XeZ S' • a/3a t/jI? Trepl rel'^p^ dy<ov ktupcv ''E/crop* 

'A^^^XXeiJ?. 

23. "^€4 • l^avaolaiv a/^&va StSov^ ereXecrcrei/ 'A;^tXX€i59. 

24. *fl • Uplafio^ v4kvp via \afia)v yipa 8a>Kev 'A;^4XXeZ. 

* Ascribed to Stephanus Grammaticus in the Palatine Anthology, ix. 386. 



THE ILIAD. 



The action of the Iliad covers only about seven weeks, or forty-nine 
days, which may be divided as follows : — 
Days. 

1. Visit of Chryses to the Greek Camp, A 12. 
1-9. Pestilence, A 53. 
10. Assembly of the Achaeans, A 54. 
10-21. Visit of the gods to the Aethiopians, A 423. 

21. Return of the gods to Olympus, A 493 f . Visit of Thetis to Zeus. 

22. The Achaeans prepare for battle. Single combat between Mene- 

laus and Paris. The battle begins. Brave deeds of Diomed. 
Hector's meeting with Andromache. B 1-H 380. 

23. Burial of the dead, H 381-432. 

24. Building of a wall for the Achaean Camp, H 433-482. 

25. Second day of battle, 0. 
Embassy to Achilles, I. 

Odysseus and Diomed enter the Trojan Camp, K. 

26. Third day of battle. The Trojans break down the Greek wall. 

Death of Patroclus. A 1-5 617. 

27. Reconciliation of Achilles and Agamemnon. Fourth great day of 

battle. Death of Hector. T 1-* 61. 

28. Burial of Patroclus, * 62-225. 

29. Funeral games in honor of Patroclus, * 226-897. 

27-38. Achilles drags the body of Hector around the bier or tomb of 
Patroclus, O 1-31. 

38. Priam visits the tent of Achilles and ransoms Hector's body, 

O 31-676. 

39. Priam brings Hector's body to Troy, O 677-775. 
39-47. Lament for Hector in Troy, O 784. 

48. Burial of Hector, O 785-787. 

49. Erection of a mound over Hector's ashes, O 788-804. 



Tii 



THE GREEK FORCES. B 494 ff. 
Mainland of Gbeece. 



Order of 

meDtion. Natiomi and Ooinm«iiden. 




No. at 
ships. 


1. 


Boeotians 


(Peneleiis) 


B 494-510. 


ou 


2. 


Orchomenians 


(Ascalaphus) 


B 511-516. 


oU 


8. 


Phocians 


(Schedius) 


B 517-526. 


Af\ 


4. 


Locrians 


(Ajax, son of Oileus) B 527-535. 


Afi 


5. 


Euboeans 


(Elephenor) 


B 536-545. 


Afi 


6. 


Athenians 


(Menestheus) 


B 546-556. 


60 


7. 


Salaminians 


(Telamonian Ajax) 


Jj nJtt 1 y ittfO* 


12 


8. 


Argives 


(Diomed) 


B 559-668. 


80 


9. 


Myceneans 


(Agamemnon) 


B 569-580. 


inn 


10. 


Spartans 


(Menelaus) 


B 581-690. 


ATI 


11. 


Pylians 


(Nestor) 


B 591-602. 




12. 


Arcadians 


(Agapenor) 


B 603-614. 


60 


13. 


Epeans 


( Amphimachus) 


B 615-624. 


40 


14. 


Dulichians 


(Meges) 


B 625-630. 


40 


15. 


Cephallenians 


(Odysseus) 


B 631-637. 


12 


16. 


Aetolians 


(Thoas) 
Insular Greece. 


B 638-644. 


40 


17. 


Cretans 


(Idomeneus) 


B 646-652. 


Ml 


18. 


Rhodians 


(Tlepolemus) 


B 663-670. 





19. 


From Syme 


(Nireus) 


B 671-675. 


3 


20. 


From the Sporades (Phidippus) 


B 676-680. 








Thessalian Greece. 






21. 


Myrmidons 


(Achilles) 


B 681-694. 


50 


22. 


From Phylaoe 


(Podarces) 


B 695-710. 


40 


23. 


Pheraeans 


(Eumelus) 


B 711-716. 


11 


24. 


Methonians 


(Philoctetes) 


B 716-728. 


7 


25. 


Oechalians 


(Podalirius) 


B 729-733. 


30 


26. 


Prom Ormenium (Eurypylus) 


B 734-737. 


40 


27. 


From Argissa 


(Polypoetes) 


B 738-747. 


40 


28. 


Aenianians . 


(Guneus) 


B 748-755. 


22 


29. 


Magnesians 


(Prothous) 


B 756-759. 


40 



FAMILY TREES. 



(1) 



THE PELOPIDS. 

Tantalus 
I 



PeLOPS = HiPPODAMIA 



NiOBE 



AtreuB 



~ — I 

PiTTHEUS 



Agamemnon 

(m. Clytaemnestra) 



MenelauB 

(m. Helen) 



^ I 

Orestes 



Electra 



Iphigenia 



Thyestes 

Aegisthus 



Hermionb 



THE AEACIDS, 
(2) Zeus 

Aeacus (of Aegina) 



Peleus = Thetia Telamon 

I r-^ , 

Aciiillea Ajaz Teucer 

Neoptolemus (Eurysaces) 



THE OENEIDS. 
(3) Oeneus 

TydeuB = Deipyle Mele'aqer 

|(d. of Adrastus 
of Argofl) 

Diomed = Aegialfia 



1 



FAMILY TREES. 



ROYAL FAMILY OF TROY. Y215£f. 



(4) 



Hub 

(Fotmder of Ilios) 

Laomedon 



Zeus 
Dardanus 
Erichthonius 

TroB 

(founder of Troy) 



Ganymed 

(Cupbearer of Zeus) 



Priam = Hecaba Tithonus 
I (Husband of Dawn) 



Hector = Andromache 

I 

Astyanaz 



assaracus 

Capys 
AnchiBes 

I 

Aeneas 

(ASCANIUS) 



LYCIANS, Z 153 ff . 
(5) Aeolus 
Sisyphus 
Glaucus 

„ I 

Bellerophon 

IsAin)ROS HippoLOCHus Laodamia 

Glaucus Sarpedon 



VOCABULAET 



TO THB 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 
A. 



SraTTTOii unapproachable t invincible. 
iiMr\€TOi (^x^) * i^^8istil)lef unman- 
ageable. 
aaro$: insatiate. 

"AfiavTCi pi. : early inhabitants of 

Euboea, B 536. 
APoLpPaperj : a fountain-nymph, 

Z22. 

*Aj3as, -arros: a Trojan, slain by 
Diomed, E 148. 

"ApXtfpoi : a Trojan, slain by Nes- 
tor's son Antilochus, Z 32. 

d-)9Xi^, -^TO? ()9aAA,Q)): un-sTiot, 
new (of an arrow), A 117. 

a-pX-qroi ()9aAA,Q)) : un-hit, not 
wounded by a missile, A 540. 

drPXrjxpo^ 3 : delicate, weak. 

'AfivSoi: Abydus, in the Troad, on 
the south side of the Hellespont, 
opposite Sestus, B 836. 

'AfivSoOev: from Abydus, A 500. 

Aya-t strengthening prefix, very, 
exceedingly. 

Syaye : aor. of ayo), lead. 

dyajSoi 3: good, noble, useful, esp. 
useful in war, brave. It is rarely 
used of moral quality, ficiqv &ya- 
66q, good at the war-cry, brave in 
war. 

dya-#cXciros 3 and dyoKXvros (#cXeo$): 
renowned, fam^d, highly praised. 



ayaXXofuu: delight, exult. 

dyaXfia, -aro$ : delight, treasure. 

ayofMU, aor. yyajrauro, dyaxra-dfJxOal 
admire, wonder at. 

*Ay<ifi€fiviuv, -ovos : Agamemnon, son 
of Atreus, grandson of Pelope 
(B 104 ff.), king at Mycenae 
(B 569 ff.). As the leader of the 
expedition against Troy, he is 
prominent through the whole of 
the Iliad. The first part of the 
Eleventh Book is devoted to a 
recital of his brave deeds. At 
the close of the war, on his ar- 
rival at home, he was slain by 
his false wife Clytaemnestra and 
her paramour (Agamemnon's 
cousin) Aegisthus, a 35 ff., 8 512- 
537, A. 409 ff. 

a-ya/AOs : unmarried, T 40. 

dya-m<^o$: very snowy, snow-clad. 
Epith. of Olympus, A 420. 

dyavo? 3 : kindly, winning. 

*Ayairqmp, -opo^ ; Arcadian leader, 
B609. 

dyam/Tos (dyaTraco) : beloved, 
dydrppoo^ : with strong stream. 
* AyojcrOfvrfi, -cos: son of AugSas, 
E 624. 

dyocrcra/iie Ai : aor. of dya/iai, tooiu/er. 
dyavos, admirable, excellent, noble. 



2 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



' ^ssage, news, 
dyycXii^s and ayycXos : messenger, 
dyycXXo) : announcef bear a message. 
&yyoif -cos : vessel, bowl, pan. 
aye, Syerei strictly imv. of ayai, 
bring, but generally used as in- 
terjection, tip, cornel Cf. Syp€t. 
dy€Lpit>, aor. mid. ayipcvro and dypo- 
fjuevounvt plpf . dyi/ycpaTo, aor. pass. 
&y€p$rf and yytpOev [^'^^pOrfoav] : 
collectj bring together, assemble, 
aye-XtCri : giver of booty, Epith. of 

Athena as war-goddess. 
ay€krf-i^ : old locat., in the herd^ 
dyc/Mv inf., dycv impf. of dyw, lead, 
dycv \_idyrf<ray]: aor. pass, of aywfu, 
break. 

aryipturro^: toithout gift of honor 

(ycpas), A 119. 
AyipOrf^ ayipovToi aor. of dy€Lp<a, 

collect. 

dy€p<o)(Oi i proud, mighty, impetuous, 
dyiy; aor. pass, of aywfU, break. 
dyi^cparo: plpf. pi. of aydfm, as- 
semble. 

'AyTjytupf-opoq; brave Trojan leader, 
son of Antenor, A 467, A 59. 

dy-^vcDp, -op09 (dnyp): manlyy proud, 

aryrffxtm (y^/xzs) : ever-young, im- 
perishable. 

ayrfroq : admirable, splendid. 

* Ay KOLun: Ancasxis, an Argonaut, 
B609. 

dyxdf : adv. in his arms, 

dyKAiws: aor. partic. of iyakkiim, 
lean upon. 

ayKvXjo-fiTjrrii (fi^is): crooked* 
minded, crafty. Epith. of Cronus. 

dyicvXos : . curved. 

dyicvXo-ro^os : with curved bow. 

dyKQ)v, 'Sivo9: elbow. 

AyXatrj ' mother of Nireus, B 672. 

dyXatrj, loc. as dat. ^yXatriffii : splen- 
dor, beauty. 

dyXaoi : clear, splendid^ glorious. 



dyvoucD, aor. y/^'V^' f^^^ 
tice. 

ayvvfu, aor. subjv. Sig, aor. par- 
tic. a£avT€, aor. pass, dyi; and 
dycv [cdyi^oav] (fay-): break, 
break in pieces. 

d-yoi/os: without offspring, childless, 
r 40. (Perhaps unborn.) 

ayopaofuu, impf. yyopwavro, aor. 
dyopijauTO : am in assembly, delib- 
erate, address an assembly, 

dyopewa: speak, say, tell. ^fioiS 
dy6p€V€, advise to flee (flight). 

dyopq (dycc/Mtf) : assembly, speech to 
an assembly, place of assembly. 

ayopirj-Oey : adv. from the assembly. 

ayofnjvSe : adv. to the assembly. 

dyofnjfrrp : speaker, orator. 

dyos (dyo)): leader. 

ay pa: interjection, up, come! 
(Strictly imv. of dypcca [ocpco)], 
take hold.) Cf. aye. 

dypios (dypo$): wild (of animals), 
savage, 

dypop.evYfO'iv : aor. partic. of dyetpo), 
assemble, 

dypos : field, country (opp. to city), 
dyporepof 3 : wild (of animals). 
dT^^ta: street, 

dyx* ' adv. near, with gen. 
AyxtoAos : a Greek, slain by Hector, 
E609. 

dyx&-aXo9 (aXs): near the sea. 
Epith. of coast-cities. 

ayX*'/"W^' hand-to-hand fighter, 
who fights with sword and spear, 
in contrast with javelin-throwers. 

drfxf'pjoKw: adv. near. 

*Ayxtcrri9: Anchises, king of the 
Dardanians, father of Aeneas by 
Aphrodite, B 819, E 247, Y 239. 

dyXttrra : adv. most nearly, 

dyXUTTivo^ : near, in thick succession* 

dyx^v* adv. near, 

dyxo) : choke, T 371. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



8 



ayos impf. ^ev or aycv, fut. Si<o, 
aor. ij-yayc or ayayc, aor. imv. 
aiere: lead, bring, fetch, lead 
away (the connection indicating 
from what and to what the mo- 
tion tends). 

drSaiifiaiv, -01/09: unskilled in, inex- 
perienced, with gen. 

d-&ucpvro$ : without tears, tearless, 

aSciv : aor. inf. of dvSavo), please. 

a3eX<^cds or dScX^to? : brother. 

o&rfv : adv. in plenty, to satiety. 

d&vds 3 : thicks crowded, huddled. 

"ASfirfTo^ : AdmetuSy Thessalian 
king, husband of Alcestis, father 
of Eumelus, B 713 f . 

'ASpi/oTcia : Mysian town, B 828. 

'ASpiytrrf n; : daughter of Adrastus, 
Aegialea, E 412. 

"khfriffTTfyii (1) Argive king who 
gave his daughters in marriage 
to Tydeus and Polynices, B 572. 

(2) Leader of Trojan allies, B 830. 

(3) A Trojan. Z 37. 

a-ivTovi (place not-to-be-entered), 

sanctuary. 
d€$X€wa : contend in games. 
dc0Ao$ : struggle, conflict. 
dctSo), impf. aaSov: sing. 
a-€Uci^,-€9, unseemly, shameful, pitiful. 
atLfm, aor. partic. detpofievrj, plpf. 

ainfyro : raise, take up ; plpf. pass. 

was hanging, 
aucal^ofuvos 3 {d-fCK-): against his 

will. 

d-iKiov, -ovca 3: unwilling, against 

(his) wUl. 
dcXAa (arffu): violent wind, storm. 
dcAAi^s : with kokutoXos, cloud of 

dust, r 13. 
defo) {cf. wax): increase. 
d^pa-L-im (a€Lp(o, TTOvs), pi. oj^pfri- 

iroScs : high-stepping (of horses). 
*KJ^€thq<i\ son of Azeus, Actor, 

B513. 



d'CfX^^' J^fiut. adv. incessantly, un- 
ceasingly. 

d^ofwjL : dry, season, A 487. 

diofuu : reverence, feel pious fear. 

drffu, pres. partic. dei^cf : blow (of 
the wind). 

dyp, dat. i7epi : air (as opposed to 
the clear oi^p), mist. 

drjfTvXoi: wicked, dreadful, equiv. to 

, aiavXoi, E 876. 

d-Odvaroi 3 : undying, immortal, im- 
perishable. dBdvaroL immortals. 

dStpO^m : disregard, slight. 

d-0€(r<f>aTOi : unspeakable, ineffably 
great. 

'A^Tvai pi. : Athens, B 546. 

'A^^raibs: Athenian. 

*A.6rprti and 'Aft/roui/: the goddess 
A thena, Minerva. She appears 
often in Homer as war-goddess, as 
she is represented in later works 
of art ; hence she is called IlaA.- 
Ad? (spear-brandishing), yXavK- 
awri? (gleaming-eyed), dyeXurf 
(givdr of booty), Xaxxra-ooq (rouser 
of the people). 

d0p6(K : assembled, all together, 
united. 

at (ct): if. al k€: idv. at ydp 
often introduces a wish. 

ata : earth, equiv. to yatd, y^. 

AioKiSvp: sonof Aeacus. Of Achil- 
les, grandson of Aeacus, B 860. 

Atds,-avro?: Ajax. (1) Son of Tela 
mon, king of Salamis, the might- 
iest of the Achaeans, next to 
Achilles, B 768 f., T 226 ff. 
(2) Son of Oileus, swift-footed 
leader of the Locrians, B 527 ff. 

AtyotW: a hundred-armed g^ant 
of the sea, son of Poseidon; 
called Bptdpc(i)9 by the gods, 
A 404. 

alyaverfi javelin, used chiefly for 
hunting, or in games. 



4 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



AlytiSvfv: son of Aegeus, Theseus, 
A 265. 

(uy€UK (fu$) : adj. of goatskin. 
(uycipo?: Mack poplar. 
AtyioXeia: daughter of Adrastus, 
E412. 

AtyeaXos: (1) the north coast of 
Peloponnesus, on the Corinthian 
gulf, from Corinth to the £lean 
frontier ; the later Achaea, B 575. 
(2) A town in Paphlagonia, 
B855. 

aiycoXo? : coa^t, shore. 

AiycXi^: a district (?) under the 
rule of Odysseus, B 633. 

Atyiva: Aegina, island in the Sa- 
tonic Gulf, B 562. 

Alyvov : city in Achaea, B 574. 

aiyC4>xK (cxw) - aegis-hearing^ freq. 
epith. of Zeus, esp. in the gen. 

aiyk: aegis; the shield of Zeus, 
wrought by Hephaestus; prob. 
an emblem of the thunder-storm. 
Described E 738 ff., cf B 447 f . 
Athena also holds it, B 447, E 
738 ff. 

oiyXi; : gleam, brightness. 

cuyXiy-cts : gleaming, bright-shining. 

€u&€OfWA and alhopax, aor. pass, 
partic. cttSccrdcts (at3a>s) : feel 
honorable shame, or self-respect, 
reverence, am abashed before. 

6r&q\xK (arft8-) : (making unseen), 
destructive, destroying. 

'A-t&;5, gen. 'AtSco) and^Al'Sos, dat. 
'A'i^djvrji (fiS-) : Hades, god of the 
unseen lower world. His realm 
is the home of the dead, and in 
the Iliad it is beneath the earth, 
cf ® 16, I 568 fP., Y 61, X 482 ; 
while in the Odyssey, Odysseus 
sails to it, across Oceanus, k 508 ff., 
and finds in it a faint, ghostly 
imitation of life on earth. Freq. 



are the elliptical expressions cis 

'Ai8ao (sc. 86/wvs), "AiSoi data, 

to the realms of Hades. 
aJj^ouK (otSois) 3 : revered, honored, 

modest. 
£-t8pts : toidess, T 219. 
'AtScovcv? : parallel form of *Ai8vys. 
at&uS) acc. atSo) or otSoa: shame, 

sense of honor; often in a good 

sense for which a word is lacking 

in Eng. Also shame, disgrace. 

Nakedness, genitalia, B 262. 
at€i, (div (act ) : always, aicv coktcs : 

ever-living, equi v. to the following. 
cuci-yevcTiys : ever-existing, immortal, 

eternal. 

ot^i/Xo?: unseen, in some editions 

for ApCiiikoi, B 318. 
01(^1709 : adj. as subst., vigorous youth. 
oi^oXo-eis, -ccrott : smoky, sooty. 

Epith. of the fieXaOpov. The 

Homeric house had no chimneys. 

B415. 

cuOe: introduces a wish, as A 415. 

cu^p, -€pos : the pure upper aether 
above the clouds, in contrast with 
the lower arjp. aiOipi vouW dwell- 
ing in the aether, i.e. in the sky. 

AlOiKe^ pi. : a people in Thessaly, on 
the slopes of Mt. Pindus, B 744. 

Ai^tOTTCs pi*) acc. AlOunrrja^s : Aetkio- 
pians, living in two nations, at 
the extreme east and west, on 
the borders of Oceanus. They 
are pious men, loved and visited 
by the gods, a 22, A 423. 

cdSofievo^ : burning, blazing. 

(uOovau: portico, corridor. The pi. 
is used of the two, one (tuOovau 
avXrjs) an outer corridor, through 
which a passage led from with- 
out into the court; the other 
(taBovau StafULTOi), through which 
a passage led from the court into 
the house. 



FIBST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



5 



clOonff, acc. alOmra : bright, gleaming, 
esp. of bronze and wine. 

AlOpvf: Aethra, daughter of Pit- 
theus, wife of Aegeus, mother 
of Theseus. She accompanied 
Helen to Troy as slave, F 144. 

alOm, -ojvos : bright (of iron, A 486), 
brown, tawny^ bay, 

at K€ : equiv. to ct dv, idy, if, with 
subjv. 

alfUL, -aTo? : blood, race, descent. 
aifULTo^is: bloody, bleeding, 
Aifiiovi8frf^ : son of Haemon, Maeon, 
A 394. 

AtfjLujv, -oi/os : a Pylian leader, A 296. 

atfjuay, -ora$ : skilled, with gen., E 49. 

Aimas: Aeneas, son of Anchises 
and Aphrodite, the bravest of 
the Trojans, next to Hector, 
E 467. He was of the royal 
family of Troy, and the gods 
had decreed that he and his de- 
scendants should rule over the 
Trojan race, Y 215 ff., 307 f. 

aivtm (a7yo9) : praise, commend. 

AJvoBfv : from Aenus, A 520. 

euros 3: dread, dreadful, terrible, 
horrible, aivd cognate acc, adv. 
with rcKoikrii, A 414. 

oivoraros: most dread, esp. with 

(dwfmi: take, 

ourctfs : dreadfully, terribly, 

oli, ouyos : goat. 

SjL$as : aor. partic. of dto-o-o), rush. 
AloXL&rf^ : son of Aeolus, Sisyphus, 
Z154. 

aw\o-6<ll>p7f$ : with bright shining cuir 

rass, A 489. 
awXo-fUTfnys : with bright, shining 

belt of mail {lurpntj). 
(uo\&-^aiXo9 : with (quick-moving) 

fast horses, T 185. 
aliXxK : (quick-moving), bright, E 295. 
ouiraros 3 : lofly, high4ying. 



oiTToXiov: herd of goats, herd, B474. 
oiTToXos (atf, TTcX-) : (goat-tender), 

goat-herd, herdsman, 
Alwv: town under Nestor's rule, 

B592. 

alwvi, ahrtla: lofty, towering, steep, 
sheer, alnvv oXeBpov utter destruc- 
tion, 

AMtuk: adj. of Aepytus, an old 
Arcadian hero, B 604. 

aip€<a, fut. alfyrja-Qfuv, aor. clA,c or 
l\c : take, grasp, seize, gain, cap- 
ture, overcome ; mid. choose, 

alau : share, lot, allotted portion, 
term of life, Kara olouv, as is 
(my) due, equiv. to aiaifm, 

Atarproi : (1) a river in Trojan 
Lycia, emptying into the Propon- 
tis near Cyzicus, B 825. (2) Son 
of Bucolion, slain by Euryalus, 
Z21. 

at<n/xo9 (alou) : fitting, suitable, due, 

dtWo), aor. rjlia, dt&zs, aor. pass, as 
mid. rfvxBri'. rush, hasten, loaff 
Imriav dtfavrc leaping down from 
the chariot, yatrca axwovraJL the 
(hair) mane floats, 

AwnJifn/s : an old Trojan, B 793. 

alavXoi : dreadful, horrible, E 403. 

al(r\LaTOi : ugliest, 

al<rxo9, -co? : shame, disgrace, re- 
proach, 

oMTXpoq : shameful, disgraceful, 
ai(rxyviA'. disgrace, bring shame upon. 
alT€<a: ask, beg, request, 
aiTUK 3 : accountable, guilty, to blame. 
AlrtaXuK and AtrwXos: an Aetolian. 

AiTttiXoL Aetolians. 
alxfijofto, fut. alxfjuda-aovat : wield the 

lance (aXxM)j brandish, A 324. 
al)(fi'q : lance-point, point, lance, spear. 
alxfjLrjTrj^ (also al)(firjTd, E 197): 

spearman, warrior, equiv. to dyx'" 

H^XTV^f with an implication of 

bravery. 



6 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



cltf/a : straightway, quickly, 
alwv, ■<ovo5 : duration of life, life, 
'AKofias (Ka^o)) : (1) Thracian, 

slain by Ajax, B 844, E 462, Z 8. 

(2) Son of An tenor, leader of 

Dardanians, B 823. 
d-Kofiaros: unwearied, unwearying, 

Epith. of fire, E 4. 
dKax(l^(o, perf. partic. oKoxT^fjuevoq 

and aKijix!^fJuhrq', grieve, am troubled. 

Cf dx€o>' 
aK€Ofjuu, aor. ^Kccraro (aico$) : heal, 

cure. 

okIwv: silent, quiet. Generally in- 
declinable, but also fern. oKcovo-a. 
Cfdjciiy. 

d-ici^(rro9 (KiySo/uoi): uncared-for, 

unburied (of a corpse), 
dici^: adv. quietly, still, hushed, 
&-Krfpioi : heartless, cowardly, E 812. 
aKTjx^f-^ • perf. partic. of dxaxtifo). 
d-KOiris (Kotny, Kctfuu) : fem. 

mate), wife, spouse. Cf. 0X0x09, 

irapajKOLTVs. 
aKovrO^ia, aor. ojk6vtut€ and okovtUt' 

craKTos : Awr/ <A« javelin {Slkosv), 

hurl. 

SL-Koa-im : un-ordered, disorderly, un- 
fitting. 

aKoardfn {oKoan^ barley) : am well 

fed (of ahorse). 
oKovo^o) : hear, vpwrtu &uro9 oxovd- 

{co^w "you two are the first 

invited to a feast." 
OLKowo, aor. rjKovau or dKov<ra : hear, 

give ear, obey, learn. 
a-KpaavTOi (Kpauuim) : unfulfilled, 

unaccomplished, 
&Kprf (strictly fem. of aKpoq) : sum- 

, mit, cape, promontory, 
a-KfyqT09 (^Kepdvw/u) : unmixed, pure. 

<nrov&u oKfyrfOL libations where no 

water was mixed with the wine. 
AKpiro-fivSoq : endless prattler, of 

Thersites, B 246. 



Si'KpiTOs (Kpwio) : (unseparated), con- 
fused y immoderate, unreasonable, 
endless. 

6xpiT6-<l>vXXoi : with countless leaves, 
leafy, B 868. 

^xpo-KOfioq (KOfirj) : with hair upon 
the crown of the head, i.e. with 
hair bound in a knot on top of 
the head, A 533. 

dxpo-TToXos : high-towering, lofty. 

dicpof 3, sup. dicporaro?: uttermost, 
highest. Only of place. oKprq 
TToXis equiv. to dicpoiroXts, ojcprpf 
^cipa the end of the arm, the hand, 
CTT* dic/xp pvfup on the tip of the 
pole, AKpordnff icdpvs very top of 
the helmet. 

oKTrj : headland, promontory, shore. 

*kKTOpCiav: descendant of Actor, of 
his grandsons, B 621. 

^Aicroip : son of Azeus, B 513. 

oKfaKi/j (ok-) : point, tip. 

ojcwv, -OVT09 : javelin. 

dAa-3c (dXs) : to the sea. 

aXaXrjTo^ : a loud shout, war-cry, 

'AXaXKOfievrfU (dAdXiccn, ward off): 
epith. of Athena, as the Defender, 
Protector, 

dXaofuu: wander. 

dXairadvoi 3: toeak, powerless, un- 
warlike; comp. dXa9raSvdrcp09. 

dAaTTofo), fut. dXaTrd^ds: sack, de- 
stroy. 

'AXaxrrtap : (1) a PyUan, A 295. 

(2) A Lycian, E 677. 
dXycQ), aor. partic. dXyi^s : suffer 

pain, ache. 
aXyo9, -COS : grief, pain, trouble, woe, 
dXeycivds 3 : painful, grievous. 
dXcyci^o): regard, heed. 
dXccLVQ) : avoid, shun. 
'AAcMTiw : place in Elis, B 617. 
dXctn/s : sinner, evU-doer, V 28. 
'AX€^v3po9 (dXe^Q), dvijp, warder-off 

of men) : Alexander, perhaps the 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



7 



Gieek translation of Paris (and 
used four times as freq.). Son 
of Priam, husband of Helen, and 
thus the author of the Trojan 
war. His single combat with 
Menelaus^ the earlier husband of 
Helen, is described in T 16 fE. 
For his home, see Z 313 ff. Only 
in one (late) passage (O 29 f.) 
does Homer mention the < Judg- 
ment of Paris/ 
oAcfo), fut. partic. 6\e$i^ovra: ward 
off, hence (with dat. of interest) 
defend, 

dXcvo/ioi, aor. iXevaro, aor. subjv. 

dXcco/icAi: escape^ avoid, dXcva- 

/Acvov in flight, 
aXtfir^t -€«: true. iXrfiea. truly, 

the truth. 

^AXijuy mSuty: the AlSan plain in 

Asia Minor, where Bellerophon 

wandered, Z 201. 
dXTqfjxvai : gather, aor. pass. inf. of 

crowd together. 
aXBofuu : am healed, 
'AXiaf>ro$ : Haliartus, in Boeotia, 

on Lake Copais, B 503. 
drXuurroi : (unbending), mighty, 

violent, 
d\tyici09 * resembling, like. 
*AXt{(tfvc9 pi. : a people who dwelt 

in Bithynia on the Euxine, 

B856. 

* AAcos : a Lycian, slain by Odysseus, 
E678. 

aXios : fruitless, ineffectual, in vain, 
SXuK (aXs) : of the sea, dwelling in 
the sea, 

SXis (f aXis) : adv. in throngs, enough, 
dXCfTKOfwi, aor. pass, paiiiic. dXowra 

and iiXovre (foXr) : am capiured, 

taken. 

"AXxstt^pon; a Lycian, slain by 

Odysseus, E 678. 
cUicop : defence, protection, £ 644. 



<jiAxi/, dat. d\Kt: defence, help, 
strength, courage, bravery. 

"AXtcrfOTK : daughter of Pelias ; who 
died for her husband Admetus, 
B715. 

aAxi/xo9 : brave, courageous, mighty. 
dXAa: hut, yet, on the other hand. 

Sometimes correlative with filv. 

Sometimes in apod., as A 82, 281. 
aWy : adv., strictly dat. of £XXoi, 

elsewhere, i.e. away (from me). 
a-WrjKTOv (Aiyya)) : adv. unceasingly, 
oAXi/Xqiv, aXKyXouTL, aXKrjXav^ : each 

other. 

dAXo-&iiros: foreign, aXXo^iroLmen 

of other lands, 
aXKo-Bey : from another side. oAAo- 

Oev aAXo9 one on one side, another 

on another. 
dWxHOi (oAXos): of other quality, 

dAAoio9 Tis a different sort of man. 
aX\.ofJuu, aor. aXro (salio) : leap, 
dAXo-7rpd<r-aXA.os : (changing from 

one to another), changeable, fickle, 

E831. 

SXKx^i 3 (alius) : other, another, rh 
fjL€v . . . oAAa 8c, some . , , others, 
ot oXXoi, those others. Freq. a 
noun is added in appos. Cf. 
aXXrf, oAXcos, oAAore, aWoOey, 
dXXo8a7ro9, dXXoTrpocraXAos, d\- 
Xoib$, SiXXoTpuys. 

oAXorc : at another time, once upon a 
time. 3X\.OT€, SXXare at one time^ 
at another time. 

dAXorpio9 3: belonging to another 
(^UAo9, alien us). aXXorpioi 
<^<i>s (foreigner), enemy, E 214. 

cUXtos : otherwise, E 218. 

oXoKTC, dXoMra: aor. partic. of aX^ 
(TKopjca am captured. 

'AXoTny: town under Achilles's rule, 
B682. 

"AXo? : town under Achilles's rule, 
B682. 



8 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



Srkoxog (Xxxoi): (bed-mate), wife. 

SXsf oXos (salum) : fern, the sea ; 
esp. the sea near the share, as dich 
tinguished from bodi the high 
seas and the land. 

SXffos, -cos: grove, esp. a grove 
consecrated to a divinity; hence, 
a sacred field, equiv. to rc/icvos 
B 696. Temples were not fre- 
quent in the Homeric time ; the 
god's sanctuary was generally 
only a grove or enclosure, with 
an altar. 

aXro : aor. of aXXofuu. 

*A\vl3rf : a country near Troy from 
which silver came, B 857. 

oXvo-Ko^o) : flee, skulk. 

dXwo : am frantic, am beside myself, 
rave, 

*AA.^ios: (1) AlpheUs, river in 
Arcadia and Ells (flowing past 
Olympia), B 592. (2) The god 
of the Alphetis, E 545. 

*AXa)€i^ (dXcDi;, thresher) : father of 
Otus and Ephialtes, E 386. 

dXan;: threshing-floor, field (j^\2kXi\/Qdi 
with vines or trees?). 

dXco/Acvos : partic. of aXdofJuu wander. 

SilJL : up, along, for dm, by < apocope ' 
and * assimilation ' before v, P, 
as afL ireStoy. 

ifUL : adv. at the same time, together, 
with. It is sometimes found with 
r€ . . . KOLL, and hreaOoL, and ac- 
companies a 'dative of associa- 
tion.' 

'Afjia^oves 'ph: Amazons. These war- 
like women fought against the 
Phrygians, T 189 ; they were slain 
by Bellerophon, Z 186. 

fyaJ9o9 : sand, E 587. 

dfuufiaK€T09 3 : raging, impetuous. 

i^iaprdvd), aor. oifjuifyrc and rjfiPpo- 
7C5 : miss, fail to hit. 



dii-aprg (cl/io, dp-): at the same 
time, at once, together. 

*A/mpvyK€CSifp : son of Amarynceus, 
Diores, B 622. 

dfi'PdXKtu (SyaPdXXul) : (throw up, 
hold back), put off, postpone. 

d/urjSa-ros (dvd, Palvm) : to be as- 
cended, scaled. 

d'fiPpoairj : ambrosia, food of the 
gods, and even of their horses. 

a-fifipoa-ijos 3 (fiporoi): ambrosial, 
divine. 

d-fiPpoTOi : immortal, divine. 

a-fiiyap-TOi (juyaipto) : {unenvi* 
able), dreadful. 

dfjudfim, aor. d^uitlmTo: change, ex- 
change; mid. answer, reply. 

ofULVijJv, -w: better, preferable, braver, 
mightier, comp. of dyaJSoi. 

dfiJXyfo : milk. dfieXyofuvai a- 
milking, being milked. 

d-fuvrp^: powerless, weak, faint. 

d'fUTptxmi^, -€s (^iros) : of Mfwncflw- 
ured speech^ endless talker, B 212. 

dfjLfJL€ : Aeolic for 17/Lias, us. 

dfifu : Aeolic for i^fiiv, us. 

d-fifwpoi (jwpo^, fwtpa) : (without 

^ portion), ill fated, unhappy. 

dim : for i^/Acrcpos, our, Z 414. 

d-fWTov: adv. ceaselessly, eagerly, 
violently. 

dfif^elfm, aor. dpnrelpavre^ : put upon 
spits, spit. 

dfiTreXo-mf -€<rona : rich in vines, vine- 
clad. 

dfi-^€7raX<av : aor. partic. of dyar 
iraWo) brandish. 

ditr^mruvOrf. aor. pass, of dm-nWo) 
revive, E 697. 

'Afiv&dv, -iovos: town in Paeonia, 
on the Axius, B 849. 

*AfivicAa( pi. : an old Achaean city in 
the valley of the Eurotas, about 
a league south of Sparta. Seat 
of Tyndareiisandhissons. B584. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



9 



ar/iv/jutn^y -0V09 * blameless, honorable. 

afivv<ih aor. ayLvvfv'. ward off, keep 
off, protect, defend, with dat. of 
interest, or ablatival gen. 

ofvucra-io, fut. afiv$(o : Qear), gnaw. 

dfKly-€)(yTo : aor. of &fi.ffii-\€ia, pour 
about. 

Afi<l>^p€€lyi^, -€s (cpc^o)) : covered 
(closed) both above and below, 
A 45. 

dfi^i (a/ii<^a>) : adv. and prep, (on 
both sides), (above and below), 
about, around. Often equiv. to 
irepi, but 7r€pi freq. is used of 
what surrounds in a circle. afJi<f> 
o/ScXxMriv €7r€Lpav they pierced with 
spits so that the spit appeared at 
either side, rjpLir€ 8* afi<l> avrw 
but he fell over him, oi d/x^l 
Upuifjujv Priam and his attend- 
ants. Cf &fi<l>k. 

SLfJL(l>-ui)(yiav : perf . partic, as pres., 
shrieking about, B 316. (dfJt.f€fa' 
Xyuiv, from ^x^^> heeii con- 
jectured.) 

dfi^-)3cuVo), perf. d/A^i^€^i;Ka, go 
about; perf. has come upon, stands 
over (lit. upon both sides of), pro- 
tects (fig., from the beasts who 
stand over and protect their 
young). 

dfi<l>L-Paai^ (Palvm) : defence, E 623. 
dti<l>i-PpoTo^ 3 : man-protecting, only 

of the shield (acnrk). 
Afu^tyo/eta : town under Nestor's 

rule, B 593. 
d/x<^-'yvi/-£ts (yvLov) (ambi-dex- 

ter) : strong-armed. Epith. of 

Hephaestus ; sometimes as a 

subst. 

^<^-8cuQ>, perf. d,fi<^tS€&^: burn 
about, blaze round about, Z 329. 

a4i<l>i-Spv<l>ri^, -€s (SpvTrrw) : (torn on 
both sides), with both cheeks torn 
(in grief), B 700. 



SLfi<l>i'(Xur(m : fern, adj., curved at both 
ends (or on both sides), shapely. 
Epith. of ships, esp. of those 
drawn up on shore ; only at the 
close of the verse. 




d/i^-CTTO): am busy about, d/i^- 

cjTOVTcs busily, 
d/A<^(-KaXv7rrQ), aor. afi<l>€KaXv\l/E : 

conceal round about, cover, envelop. 
d/A<^6-KV7reAAov Sciras : two-handled 

cup. 

aLfi<l>i-fmxofJuu: fight about, with acc. 

*Afi<l>LiJjaixo^ (1) leader of the 
Eleans, B 620. (2) A Carian 
leader, B 870 ff. 

afJi<l>L-fi€Xds '. black round about, dark- 
ened on all sides (of a mind dark 
with passion). 

afi<l>t-vifwiJjcii : dwell round about, 
inhabit. 

"A/x^^Zos : (1) Trojan leader, B 830. 
(2) Son of Selagus, slain by Ajax, 
E 612. 

d/A^t-Trei/o/Luu : am busy about. 
Afi<l>L-vo\o^ (ttcA-o)) : fem., maid, 

female attendant, corresponding 

to the male $€pdir<tiv. 
afJi<l>t-7roTdoiJuu: flyi'oundabout,'B^15. 
aLfi<f>Ls: on both sides, . separately, in 

two ways. &fi<l>U <l>pd^ovTai are 

divided in mind, are at variance. 

*Xp.if>LTpv(iiv, -a)vo5 : husband of Alc- 
mena, putative father of Heracles, 
E 392. 



10 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



(Ifi^-^aXos : with double ridge (for 
the crest). Epith. of a helmet. 

dfL^X^^ ^ pass. dfiif>€- 

XOTO : pour about. 

d/A^orcpos {ofufna) 3 : both. In 
sing, only neat., always at the 
begmning of the verse, sometimes 
introducing a following rc . . . kcu. 
afJUfl>oT€fyg<riv (sc, )(€palv) with both 
hands, 

afJLtlHiT€pw$€y : (from both sides), on 

both sides. 
Sli^^ ( a m b o) : bothy only nom. and 

acc. dual, but freq. const, with 

the pi. 

av : by * apocope ' for dm, up, 
dv: modal adv., indicating a con- 
dition. 'There is no adequate 
translation for dv taken by itself.' 
Its use is not so strictly defined 
as in Attic; the subjy. with av 
is used nearly like the fut. ind., 
or the potential opt. ; the poten- 
tial opt. is sometimes found with- 
out dv, where the Attic rule would 
require it; and kc is used even 
with the fut. ind. 
In use, dv is essentially equiv. to 
KC, which is more freq. 
* In simple sentences and in the 
apodosis of complex sentences, 
dv and xev express limitation by 
circumstances or condition.' 
'In final clauses which refer to 
the future, the use of dv or kcv 
prevails.* 

' In conditional clauses the subjv. 
and opt. generally take dv or kcv 
when the governing verb is a 
future or in a mode which im- 
plies a future occasion.' 
Tort K€v fuv ir€Trt$oifi€y then we may 
persuade him^ Ktlvoucn S* hy ovrts 
fmx^oiro but with those no one 
would contend, al kc irdBi Zciis 



3(p(n if Zeus ever grants, rax S» 
mr€ Oviwv oXia-aji he may at some 
near time lose his life, cvr* 4f ttoX- 
Xoi irCirriMn when many shall fall, 

dvd, dv, a/jL (before labials): adv. 
and prep., up, thereon, upon, along, 
dm iBpafu started back, dva orpa- 
Tov (up) through the camp, dv* o/u- 
Aov through the throng, dv tc pAyrfv 
along through the conflict, €f>pov€mf 
ava Bvfwy considering in mind, dm 
irrofm on (your) lips, dva arparcv 
and Kara arparov, dva dorv and 
Kara dcrrv are used with slight 
difference of meaning; in such 
expressions, metrical convenience 
seems to have determined the 
choice between dva and Kara. 

dm : for ^.vajmfii rise, Z 331. 

dm : vocative of dvo^ Idng, V 351. 

dm-^atvo), aor. dve^i; and dyaPas: 
go up, ascend, mount, embark. 

avd-l3\rf(ns, -109: delay, postpone- 
ment. Cf ApPaXKtu, 

avay Kcurj and avdyicrf : necessity, com- 
pulsion, ris rot avdyKr/ what com- 
pels thee f 

dya-yvaprnTio, aor. pass, dveyva/x- 
: bend back, turn. 

dv-dynh aor. dviyyaycv: lead up, bring 
back; mid. put to sea (opp. to 
Kardyco-Au). 

avaSexopm, aor. dvc3e^ro : take up, 
receive. 

dm-^cu, aor. dveSvcrero and dvcSu: 
dive up, appear from below, rise. 

ava-Brjkiia, fut. dm^XTO-o) : bloom 
again, put forth new leaves, A 236. 

aiHjLi^rj (at&us) : shamelessness, in- 
solence. 

dv-ai^s, -€s : shameless, pitiless. 
dv-cu/juov, -ovos (alpa) : bloodless (of 

the gods), E 342. 
dv-aipeo), aor. partic. dveXcov, aor. 

nud. dveXovro: take up. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



11 



ivattmrn, aor. opt. avat$€i€v, aor. 
partic. avails: 9t(xrt up, spring 
up, rise. 

dva-iMvia, aor. inf. ava-icXiytu, aor. 
partic. ay#cXimf : lean upon, lean 
back. dvaxXlmL vc^os roll hack 
(t.«. open} the cloud. 

avoKovrCim: shoot up, spirt up (of 

^ blood), E 113. 

diMt\K€vri (oXki/) : u)eakness, cow- 
ardice, dvaXxurjci SafjJvT€9 over- 
come by their cowardice. 

ov-oXki^, hSos : powerless, weak, cow- 
ardly. 

dva-v€m> : (nod up), refuse, deny (a 
request) ; opp. to Koraraxi) indi' 
cate and confirm assent by a nod. 

avai, gen. dvoKTOi, voc. ava (pdva^) : 
{protecting lord), king, lord, mas- 
ter, epith. of gods and princes. 
Sya( dvSpiav king of men, epith. 
esp. of Agamemnon. 

ava-iroAXo), aor. partic. dinrcjraXwv : 
brandish. 

dtfa^CfiirXrffii, aor. subjv. dvairX-j- 

OTf^: Jill up, fulfil, complete, 
avorirvita, aor. pass. dpjrvvvByj'. take 

breath, revive, 
dv^irotvom (^TTOim): unransomed, 

freely, A 99. 
av-apixtKi without leader, uncom* 

manded. 

aveurcrcD (pdyai) : ride over, reign, he 
master, lord of. Freq. with dat. of 
interest. Mv/9/xt3dve<r(riv avaotrc 
(reign for the Myrmidons), reign 
over the Myrmidons. 

ava-oraf : standing up ; aor. partic. 
of avtarrifu set up. 

am-on/o-cicv : aor. opt. of dvitrTrjfu 
cause to stand up, rouse from their 
seats. 

dva-irx^iv, dvdcrxeo, dvacrx^aOai, avor 
axofieyoi, dvaa^wv : aor. of ave^o) 
hold up, endure. 



dm-rcWm, aor. dvcretXc: send up, 

cause to grow, E 777. 
dva-Tpeiria, aor. dverpairero : turn 

over. 

dva-ifHuvia: (show up), reveal, 
am'xdiofjuu: draw back, withdraw, 
yield. 

ava-^iapim, aor. dmx^V^^* 

back, yield, retreat. 
dvor^Xia: cool, refresh. 
dvSdvfih impf . ^v8avc or aofSavt, aor. 

inf. aScZv (pavSoj^io, fa&-) : please, 

am acceptable. 
*AvSpaCfjutuv, -ovos : father of Thoas, 

B638. 

avSpei-€l>ovrrj9 (^ovos) : manrslaying, 

of "EwdXio^y B 651. 
avSpo-KToxriij (KTavctv) : slaughter of 

men. 

^Av^pofMxri' Andromache, wife of 
Hector, daughter of Eetion (king 
of Theba), Z 394 ff. Her father 
and brothers were slain by Achil- 
les, Z 414 ff . 

dvSpo-^ovos : man-slaying, epith. 
esp. of Hector and Ares. 

dv<Prf : aor. of avaPaCm go up, rise. 

dv-€yvdfi<l)Orj : aor. of aofayvdfLima 
bend back 

av^Si$aToi aor. of &m&€)(pfmi re- 
ceive. 

iih€dv, and dveSvcrero : aor. of dro- 
8vft) dive up to, appear from. 

av-€€py<o : check, hold back. 

aiy-erfK€v:. aor. of ayCijfU urge on. 

dv-eifu, pres. partic. dvuWa (cTfu): 
come back, return, Z 480. 

dv-€{pofmi (ipofuu) : a^^k, inquire. 

dy-€K-r6s (dvexo)) : endurable, A 573. 

oLy-^XovTo, av€Xwv: aor. of dvaipccn 
take up. 

dvc/xo9, -oco : wind. Homer knows 
but four winds : Evpo? East wind, 
Boperp North wind, Z€<^vpo9 West 
wind, Noros South wind. 



12 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



6v€fjLtaXuK (av€/A09) : (toindy), empty^ 

U8ele88f idle, in vain, 
Av€fjuap€UL : town in Phocis, B 521. 
av<vtv€ : impf . of avavewo (nod up, 

t.«. shake the head), refuse. 
di^crrcs : aor. partic. of dvCrffu urge on. 
av-€$ofWJL: fut. of carexofjuu suffer, 
allow. 

• av€p€s,iv€pi,ivepas: from dn/p man. 
dv^pXPfJua: return. 
dy-€<rrav [dv«myaav], dviurrf : stood 

up, rose, aor. of dvumfpjL set up. 
dih€<rx€To, dviirxpvi aor. of ave^o) 

hold up, raise. 
av-€T€ik€ : aor. of dmreXXo) send up. 
dv-trpdirtro ; aor. of avarpetno turn 

over. 

avcv^c(v) : adv. far, away from, with- 
out. avevOe $€ov without divine help. 

dv^xpHcro: impf. of dvaxaiopm 
draw back. 

dv-€)(<a, fut. dviiopm and dv^xif- 
trtuOai, aor. dviaypvi hold up, 
lift, raise; mid. hold up under, 
endure, suffer, allow. 

dv-extopvjatv: aor. of dva\vipiia draw 
hack. 

ayc<^: speechless, dumb, mute. (Prob. 
an old adj. in nom. pi.) 

dv-Tfyaytv aor., dvrjyt^ impf. : of dvd- 
yo) bring back. 

dv-rfU aor. subjv., av^Kc aor. ind. : 
of dvCrf/u let go, urge on. 

av^KcoTo? (aKos) : incurable, unen- 
durable, E 394. 

dv^Kovnie : impf. of dvoKovTil^to 
shoot up, E 113. 

aanip, gen. di^pof or ivipo^, dat. 
avipi, nom. pi. dvcpc?, dat. pi. 
dKSpGun or dv^€<rm: 9nan, vir, 
in contrast with boy, woman, or 
divinity, avcpcs fore be (brave) 
men ! In military use, equiv. to 
y^XTV^ ^<^^or. In warrfp dv- 
Spiav re $€&v re, father of both men 



and gods (of Zeus), avSpeg is used 
of the human race (like SvOpunmi). 
dvijp is sometimes added to eth- 
nic names, as ZSu^ics avSpe^, £idp- 
&U/09 dvrjp, or to the name of a 
class, as onroXoc c^vSpcs, PaxnX^ 
dvSpi, P€vXrf4>6pov avSpa. 

dvi^a : fut. of dv-vrf/u urge on. 

*Av6€fju&fp: son of Anthemio, Si- 
mo'isius, A 488. 

*AvO€fUiuv, -wvos : a Trojan, A 473. 

dv0€fju6-€i^, -cvro? (dv^os) : flowery, 
abounding in flowers, 

dvOepetlw, -<i>vo9 : chin. 

*Av6rjSiav, -ovo^ i town on the Euri- 
pus, about seven miles from 
Chalcis, B 508. 

3aSos, pi. di^ca : flower. 

avOpwroi : man, human being, 
homo. 

dviajta, aor. partic. dvlrfifvra : grieve, 

vex, wear out. 
dv-Ltipx, 2d pers. ind. amis, ^em. 

partic. dvieura, fut. dvqati, aor. 

di^KC or dverjKey, aor. subjv. dvi^, 

aor. partic. avc^rcs: (send up), 

let go, free, urge on. 
dviovra : partic. of dyctfu come back, 

return. 

arviTTTOi (nirro)) : unwashed, Z 266. 

dv-vfmipx, pres. mid. partic. dvurrd- 
fjxyoi, fut. inf. dvtm^ea^ai, 1st 
aor. opt. amonycrcicv, 2d aor. ind. 
dv€<rrrf, dvarrjrrp^, avcorav [dv€- 
an^crav], aor. partic. dvaurds, 
dvcrrdmre^ : set up, raise, cause to 
rise, in pres. and 1st aor. act.; 
stand up, rise, in 2d aor. and mid. 
Often with dat. of interest, roun 
S* dv€<rrrf he rose for them, sc. to 
address them. 

dvopowa, aor. dvopovce: start up, 
rise, A 248. 

aiMwroros (ovrapjcvai) : unwounded 
by a weapon held in the hand, 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



13 



opposed to Aphtp-oi unhit by a 
missile, A 540. 

aiMFTavrts aor. partic, ivfrrqfrtcrBax 
fut., dvfmjrqu aor. ind. : of avt- 
GTTffu raise up, rise. 

diMrxja-ta-OaJL: fut. of dv€)(pficu en- 
dure, allow. 

avra: opposite^ over against. Cf. 
avrqv. 

dvT-d£u>q: of like worth, of equal 
value, equivalent. 

dwoMh aor. T^^mfra : meet, Z 399. 

*Avr€ia: wife of Proetus, Z 160. 
(Stheneboea in the tragic poets.) 

ayr'€r6pyji(T€v \ aor. of dvrvropiio 
pierce, E 337; 

dvrqv: equiv. to Avra, opposite, to 
(jny) face, openly. 

* AvrrpmplSfrfi : son of Antenor. 

Avrqvtap, -opos (c/. dvridvcipa) : 
Antenor, one of the wisest Trojan 
princes (the Trojan Nestor) who 
always favored peace and the re- 
turn of Helen. He was the father 
of many doughty sons, seven of 
whom were slain in the battles 
of the Ilicui. He received Mene- 
laus and Odysseus at his house, 
when they came to Troy as am- 
bassadors, r 205 ff . ; he accom- 
panied Priam to the field, to 
strike a tamce, T 262. 

dvTui: adv. opposite. Cf. Slvtlo^. 

dvTirdvttpa (dvTfp): matched with 
men in battle, like to men, of the 
Amazons, T 189, Z 186. 

dvTtdjoi, subjv. dyrtiownv, f em. partic. 
dvnooxray, aor. partic. dvnooas : 
meet, approach, partake of, share, 
receive. 

hmrPCrjv: adv. with opposing might; 
originally cognate ace, sc. IpiSa. 

hrr[-Pm iPtti) : opposing, hostile, 
hrripw im^lfToxrOajL fight against 
in hand to hand conflict. 



avTi'Pokivi, aor. inf. dn-ij^oX^ai 
(PdXX<a) : go to meet, take part in. 

avriSw 3: god4ike, with no esp. 
reference to moral qualities. 

mrnKpi^ : adv. (opposite, against), 
straight forward, straight through. 

'An-cXoxos: Antilochus, eldest son 
of Nestor, a distinguished war- 
rior, and friend of Achilles, 
P 652 ft., * 556. 

avrCoi 3: adj. meeting, to meet, in 
friendly or hostile sense, avriov 
is used adv. dvriov cTtw opposed, 
dvrCov el/u go against. 

aam-iripajui (Trepas) : neut. pi. as 
subst., the opposite fields, the oppo- 
site coast, B 635. 

avTirTopiia, aor. avreropTjaev : pierce. 

avn-<l>€piii: bear against mid. bear 
myself against, oppose. 

^Akti^os : (1) Greek ally from the 
Sporades, B 678. (2) Leader of 
the Maeonians, B 864. (3) Son 
of Priam, A 489. 

dvrofmi: meet. 

*AvTptov, -CmK : town under the rule 

of Protesilaus, B 697. 
dvTvi, -vyos: rim, of shield or 

chariot. 

Swats, Hos : accomplishment, fulfil' 
ment. awcrw 8* ovk to'aerax " they 
will not attain what they desire 
and plan." 

dnxo : accomplish, gain anything. 

ava>ya (perf. as pres.), impf. avoryw, 
plpf . as impf. i7V(tfyci or dvwyeiv : 
command, order, bid. 

&iavT€ : aor. partic. of Syyvfu break. 

3i€i fut., Si€T€ aor. imv.: of Syo) 
lead, bring. 

*Aftos : river in Macedonia, empty- 
ing into the Thermsean Gulf, 
B849. 

^ios: (of equal weight), of equal 
value, suitable (of a ransom). 



14 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



S(9v : aor. imv. of aywfu break. 
'A(vXos : Trojan from Arisbe, slain 

by Diomed, Z 12. 
ai<ity : axle of chariot, 
doft^ (auSto) : song, gift of song. 
ackiSi/Aog: sung of subject of song, 

Z358. 

ooXXt^, -cs : aU together, with closed 
ranks. 

aoXXit<a, aor. aoXXurav : coUect, bring 
together. 

*Airtu<ro? (TLauro^, E 612) : town of 
Mysia, B 828. 

d-iraA<]fivo9 (iroAofii;) : (mthoul de- 
vice), unskilled, helpless, E 597. 

aar-oXxMjaM, aor. aanjjkoLyja^tv crush, 
A 522. 

aTroXo? 3 : tender, delicate, soft. 

arr-afieCPofiax: reply, answer. Freq. 
in the formula tov 8* arrapjaSo' 
fjuEvoq irpoa-€<f>rf, where the acc. 
is const, with Trpoo'itfnf. 

arr-avevOe: adv. away, apart, some- 
times with ablatival gen., away 
from. 

Sltto.^, oLiraxm, airav (strengthened 
iTtts) : all, all together. 

oar-aT€p$€{y) (Sxtp): adv. separately, 
apart, with gen. 

airaTrj: deceit, trick. 

airaTTfXo^: deceptive, deceitful, A 526. 

aw-iprj and drrep-qa-eTO : aor. of avo- 
Paivm depart. 

dTT-eScif aro : aor. of mro^t^fopm ac- 
cept. 

air-€Sva'€ : aor. of anvSwo strip off. 

aTT-cScDKc : aor. of &jroSi&o}fu give 
back, pay, render. 

d7r€iA,€Q), fut. dTreiXtjcto, aor. ^ct- 
Xrjaey and dirtikijaav (aTTCiXi;) : 
threaten. Tjir^tk-qfrfv fivOov (he 
threatened a word), he uttered a 
threat. 

&ir-€i/u, partic. dircorros (ci/u) : am 
away. 



drirtipiav, -ovos : boundless, limitless. 
dir-cKTavc : aor. of diroicrciW slay. 
drircXc^po? (ir^X€$pov) : immeasura- 
ble, infinite. 
dw-evwraxiTo : aor. of &nvvaIofwx 

emigrate. 
mr-€6vTOi : partic. of airufu am away 
d-^peCauK (yripoi) 3 : boundless. 

countless. 
oTT-epivKai : keep off, ward off, avert, 
dn^axrvfuvav perf . partic, dwiaavro 

plpf . : of ditwro'evofjuu hasten away, 
dn^urrrj : stepped back, aor. of d^i- 

<rrrffu set back. 
dTT-maav : aor. of dirorivai pay. 
d7r-€)(&aip(o, aor. snbjv. dir€)(&rjpw 

(i)(Ooi) ' hate violently. 
dTr^xBavopax, aor. darqyOfro'. am 

hated. 

dir^w, aor. subjy. diroorxQ' hold 

off, keep far away. 
dTT-TjXjoirfo-ev : aor. of dmnKoidio crush. 
d-vrfpMv (Tnjfw.) : unharmed. 
dTT-iywys, -€0? : (unkind), harsh, cruel, 

A 340. 

dir-rpjpa^ danjvpiay: took away. See 
dirovpa^. 

dTT^xSero : aor. of dar€)fiavopm am 
hated. 

d-TTiJSita, aor. dwiOrfae (ireiBw) : dis- 
obey, 

diruK 3 : distant, remote. Tr)ko$€v 
€$ dwirp yotiys from far away — 
a remote land. 

d-jTMJTo? : faithless, untrustworthy. 

diro: adv. and prep., away, off, 
from, back. The adv. is freq. 
attended by an ablatival gen. 
d<l> tTnrwv aXro leaped from, his 
chariot, dwo )(0ovo9 wpvvro on the 
ground he set out, puhnav diro dXo- 
ypM remaining away from his wife. 

dtroiopiopajL and dtfHupiofiai, fut. 
d<l>ajLpTfa'€<r6ai, aor. di^cWro : take 
away, deprive for my own interest. 



FIBST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



15 



Awo-PainOf aor. aar€Pij<rero or darc- 

firj: go off, dismount, 
aaro'fikqro^ (fiaXka) : to be cast off, 

to he rejected f despicable. 
diro-yvtOQ), aor. subjv. dwoyvtwrg^ : 

(lame utterly)^ weaken, Z 265. 
dTTo-Scxo/Aoc, aor. aTrcSc^ro: accept, 

A 95. 

diro-8i8ci>fU, aor. oirc&iMc^ aor. inf. 

dinSoijvfa : give back, render, pay. 
ebro-SvQ), aor. aTreSvcrc : strip off. 
dbro-€i9rc: imv. of airo^fo, deny, 

refuse. 

cbro^Kci): withdraw from, abandon, 
with gen., V 406. 

&iro<pa% (aor.) : carried off^ swept 
away. Cf. dbrovpas. 

oaroSicrOaxi aor. inf. of airoTi6rj/u 
put off. 

&iro-Op«Sia'Kta : leap off. 

airowa neut. pi. (Trotn/) : {recom- 
pense), ransom. 

ioMHurerov '. fat. of aTro^epo) &6ar 
otoay, E 257. 

iaro-Kfiim, aor. pass, partic. mroKfUv 
Oeyrt : separate. awoKptvOevre 
apart from their friends, E 12. 

&iro-KT€ano, aor. ind. aTreicravc, aor. 
inf. dbrofcra/uv : «^ay, H//. 

dnro-Aafi7rci>: ^Atne, gleam. 

dir<i\c<7^at aor. inf., dl,7rQXe(nrav aor. 
ind. : of diroXXvfU destroy. 

isro-XffYw : cease, die away, die, 

dar-oWvfii, aor. act. aTroiA.ca'c and 
aTToXccraav, aor. mid. airtaXero and 
dn-oAxn^o: destroy; mid. perish, die, 
fall (in battle). 

'At'oXA.oiv, -<in/o9: Apollo, son of 
Zeus and Leto, twin brother of 
Artemis Grod of the sun and 
light (hence ^otfios gleaming), of 
the bow (hcrffiokoiy dpyvpoTo(oi), 
of health and disease. He is one 
of the mightiest gods, freq. asso- 
ciated with Zeus and Athena. 



He favors the Trojans against 

the Greeks. 
aaro-Xvpmvofua : purify myself. 
aTToXvo), aor. AwtXvae: release, set 

free. 

airo-fjLriuUa, aor. partic. SLWofirpdtms l 
give vent to wrath far away. 

aar-oiLopyvvpx, aor. arroyuop^roi wipe 
away. 

mro-valat, aor. AtrtvaxraxiTo : emigrate, 

&iro-v€OfWJL: return. 

aaro-voariiik, f ut. ajrovoarrja-uv (via-" 

TO?) : return, go home. 
diro-vo(r^(v) : adv. apart, away 

from. 

avo-mvta, fat. mid. diroiravcrccrAu : 

cease from; mid. keep myself 

away from, stop, 
iaro-ireropm, aor. mid. partic. aaro' 

Trroficvo? : fly away, 
cany^nreiio (wvcw) : breathe forth, 
drro^nrtw : spit forth, belch forth. 
airo-pifY^fU, aor. partic. dnoppi^i ; 

break off, break, 
air-opwfua i set out from, E 105. 
dir-opovci>, aor. ajropova-e: leap off 

(from his chariot). 
aaro-pfHo((p'qywfu)i (what is broken 

off), branch (of a river). 
aTTO-axrevofuu, plpf . dTrccrcrvTo, perf . 

partic. as pres. dTrco-oiJ/icvov: rush 

away, hasten away. 
diro-aTu\iii, B/or. dLirwrny^ : go away^ 

depart. 

aaro-<r<l>dXX(a, aor. opt. diroo-t^Xcie : 
drive far aioay from. dTrocri^i/Xcie 
irovouo " make vain their labor." 

dirwryjiji aor. of airt^: hold off^ 
keep far away from. 

AinyTi&rjfU, aor. inf. airoOea&ai : put 
off, doff. 

daro^vo), fat. d7rori(ro/ACVt aor. dire 

Ttcrav: pay. 
dirovpa? aor. partic: taking away, 

(Prob.fordiro-/rpas. Of this, dwifw- 



16 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



pa (or direvpa) would be the ind., 
while mrr/vpiijv seems to be formed 
from an d7rcv/3ao>.) 
diro-^/DO), fut. ind. dwoCa-eTov: bear 
away. 

diro-^ivv$<o : waste away, perish. 

caro-<f>Biv<i), aor. partic. dwo<f>0{fJLevcv: 
perish, die, 

a-ir/Ji/KTOs (ir/wyo-o-ci)) : {unaccom- 
plished), without result, fruitless. 

d-^puiTrjv (wpta/iai): adv. unbought, 
without ransom. 

d-TTToKefjm: unwarlike. 

dmofuLL, aor. •^ifwro: lay hold of, 
touch. 

dir<li\€a-€, dirtaXeTo: aor. of cbroAr 
Xvfu destroy. 

dir-i^im, fut. aTTcoo-ct : push off, keep 
off, remove. 

apa, pd (enclit.), op, p: so, then. 
Very often it marks an action as 
natural, or as well-known, or re- 
minds of something recently said. 
It also marks transitions. Freq. 
it cannot be translated into Eng. 
for lack of an equivalent particle, 
but its force must be rendered by 
a suitable arrangement of words, 
or inflection of voice. It never 
stands at the beginning of a 
clause. 

apap€(D, aor. dpap7p-€ (dpapo^) : 
ring, of the armor of falling war- 
riors. 

^ApatOvperfi thought to be the later 
Phlius near Corinth, B 571. 

dpaio^ 3 : (thin), delicate, tender, of 
Aphrodite's hand. 

dpdopxa, impf . ^paro, aor. riprffraro 
(dpd prayer) : pray. 

dpaplfTKia, aor. partic. a/cxravrcs, aor. 
ind. rjpape, perf. partic. dprfptas 
and dpapvia, plpf . opi/pciv ; Join, 
Jit, suit; perf. and plpf. are in- 
trans., am fitted, suited, iwrn/p 



d{yripm a well-fitting girdle, o cl 
iraXdfiTf<l>iv dprfpuv which teas 
suited to his hands, 

dpyoXeos : grievous, terrible, difficult, 

'Apycibs (*Apyos) 3 : Argive. "^prq 
^kpyu-q, A 8, since Hera was the 
patron goddess of Argos, 'A/yycny 
'EA.en^ since Helen's true home 
was in Peloponnesus. As subst., 
*Apy€ibi the Ar gives, men of Argos 
in the broader sense; used like 
'AxawC and Aamoe, of all the 
Greeks. Metrical convenience 
often determined the choice be- 
tween these three words. Homer 
had no one word for Greeks as 
distinct from barbarians. 

*Apyci^wn;s: a freq. epith. of 
Hermes. Its derivation is uncer- 
tain. It is best rendered as a 
proper name. 

dpyewos (dpyos) 3: lustrous, with 
white sheen, white, 

dpyi/s, -^os : white, glistening. 

dpyivo^s, -cKTos : chalky. 

"ApyuTfTa : a Thessalian town, 
B 738. 

^Apyos, -cos : Argos, (1) Capital of 
Argolis, seat of Diomed, B 559. 
(2) Peloponnesus ("Apyos *A)(tu- 
iKw, 1 141), A 30. (3) Thessaly 
{UeXaxryiKov "Apyo^), B 681. In 
Z 456, *Apyo5 seems to be used 
for all Greece, just as "Apycux is 
used for Greeks. 

"Apyoa-Se : to Argos, B 348. 

dpyos : (1) swift, (2) white. 

dpyvpeo^ (apyvpos) 3: of silver^ 
silver. 

dpyvpo^VTfi^ : with silver eddies, 

silver-eddying. 
dpyvpo-rjkxK • silver-studded, studded 

with silver nails, of a sword hilt. 
apyvpo-TTC^a : silver footed, i.e. with 

beautiful white feet. Epith. of 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



17 



Thetis. Cf, 'Thetis' tinsel-slip- 
per'd feet,' Milton Comtw 877. 
a{yYvpos: silver. 

dpToi/oo-Tofos : silver-howedy hearer of 

the silver how, Epith. of Apollo. 
dpaW, apuoy: comp. of aya^o9 

good, brave, mighty, Cf, apurro^. 
apia-Kw, f ut. ap€a-a-6fi€$a : atone for, 

satisfy, make right, 
'Aperatay, -0V09: Trojan slain by 

Teucer, Z 31. 
aprf^m, fut. api^etv, aor. Ap^$ai: aid, 

defend, 

dpriytav, -ovos : helper, defender. 
ofn/ios : {pertaining to Ares), of war, 

warlike, martial, brave, 
dprjC-<l>iXoi : dear to Ares. 
'Apijioy : town under Nestor's rule, 

B591. 

dprjp€iv plpf dprfpiro^ perf . partic. : 
of apapvfTKta fit, suit. 

*Ap7j9,gen . *Apcos,dat.*Apct,or '^Aprjfi, 
acc. "Apvp., voc. "Apes or ''Apes : 
Ares, Mars, son of Zeus and 
Hera. God of war, but not one 
of the most powerful divinities. 
*Epis (Strife) is his sister ; Aci/tos 
(Terror) and ^ofio^ (Flight) are 
his attendants, A 440 f. His 
home is in Thrace. He is on the 
side of the Trojans in the action 
of the Iliad. His name is freq. 
used for battle, war, fury of war. 

OprfTT^p, -^pos (apajopai): 
(one who prays), priest, 

dpi-fi/Xos : very clear, dis" 
tinct. 

dpi$p.€(o, aor. pass. inf. 
&piBp.rfiripxvax (apLBp^); 
count, enumerate, number. 

Api/ioc : a people in Cilicia, 
where Typh eus 1 ay bound 
beneath the earth, B 783. 

dpt-Trpcirq^, -cos : distinguished, pre- 
eminent. 



*Ap{(rfirf, town in the Troad, not 

far from Abydus, B 836. 
'ApCa-prf-Ocv : from Arisbe, B 838. 
opioTcpos: left (hand). Itr Apur- 

T€pd to the left, on the left. 
apuTTvk, -70s : chief, prince. 
apuTT€wa, iterat. impf. dpurrcveo-icc : 

am chief, am first, am brave in 

battle, 

dpuTTo^ 3 : sup. of aya^os good, 
strong, mighty, brave. Cf dpciW. 

'ApKoj^rfi Arcadia, in the middle 
of Pelopoimesus, B 603. 

*Apicas, -a3os : Arcadian, B 611. 

*ApKco-t-Aaos (Defender of the peo- 
ple) : Boeotian leader, B 495, 
slain by Hector, O 329. 

dpjceo), aor. rjpKta-t : protect, ward off, 
Z16. 

apicios : appointed, fated, sure, B 393. 

"Appa, -aros: Boeotian town near 
Mycalessus, B 499. 

ap/Ao, -aros : chariot, esp. chariot of 
war. It was low and light, en- 
tered from behind, with a curved 
rim (avTv^) in front and on the 
sides, with standing-room for 
two persons, the driver and the 
fighter. It was drawn gener- 
ally by two horses, sometimes 
by three. The pi. is freq. used 
like the sing. Cf &'<^pos, o^osy 
oxca. 




appjaTO-irrjyoi (irrjywpj.) : chariot' 
maker, A 485. 



18 



VOCABULABY TO THE 



apfMoCiOy aor. ijpfuxrt: Jit, suit to. 

rjpfMtrt avr<p he fitted it to him- 
^ self. 

ApfwviSv/^, -CO): son of Harmon 
(Joiner) t Tecton, a skilful Trojan 
artisan who built the ships that 
carried Paiis to Greece, £ 60 ff . 

apva (acc. sing.), dual apvc, gen. pi. 
dpvSw: lamb. 

Apwos: ram. 

"Apm^ : Boeotian town, B 507. 

apwpm, aor. opt. apout: strive to 
win, gain. 

apovpa (dpwo) : ploughed field, corn- 
field, land, earth. 

apnuini, aor. partic. apnufia? : seize, 
carry off. 

a-ppvfKTfK (pvy^l^) ' (unbroken), 
unwearied, untiring. 

apanvTts : aor. partic. of apapuTKia 
fit, suit. 

apTtpjf^, -4s : sound, unharmed. 

"Aprepxs, -i8os: Artemis, Diana, 
daughter of Zeus and Leto, and 
twin sister of Apollo. Like her 
brother, she is on the side of the 
Trojans. Like him she bears a 
bow, and she is his counterpart 
in several respects, sending quiet 
death to women, as he does to 
men. 

apruK : welUfitting, harmonious. 

apTia gf&y " was of one mind." 
aprvvio, impf. rfprvveroi prepare, 

form. 

dpX^Kcucos : beginning-cadamity, which 

began the trouble, E 63. 
Apx€-\oxos (Leader of cohort) : a 

Trojan, son of An tenor, B 823, 

slain by Ajax, H 463 ff. 
opx^vo) : lead, command. 
apxTi: beginning. 
dpx^s ' leader, chief 
apXio, aor. subjv. ap^wai, aor. opt. 

&p$€uiv: lead the way, command. 



rule, begin, Freq. with gen., 
sometimes with dat. of interest. 

Apwyi^ (apr/yio) : help, protection. 

ipar/os : helper (cm ilfcvUam to 
liars). 

axroL : aor. inf. of ao> sate. 
cirirPcfTTOi (ifPhnnspx) 3 : (unquenc^ 

able), ceaseless. 
Acrdpmvia (atrOpa): breathe hard 

gasp. 

*A<ranj : town in Argolis, B 560. 
-Ao-ios: prominent leader of Trojan 

allies, B 837. 
-Actios: adj. Asian, B 461. 
'AcTKoXa^os : leader of Orchomeni- 

ans, son of Ares, B 512. 
*A(TKaviri : district in Bithynia, 

B863. 

'AcTKavios: leader of Trojan allies 

from Ascania, B 862. 
axTKeio, impf. rfCKW, aor. partic. 

ao-mToas: prepare. 
^Aakkrpna&tfsi son of Asclepius, 

Machaon, a skilled sui^eon, 

A 204. 

*A(ricXi/irco9 : Asclepius, Aescula- 
pius, B 731. Homer does not 
know him as a divinity, but as a 
hero skilled in surgery and the 
use of herbs. 

do-Kos : leathern bottle for wine. 

Aamupio: gasp. 

axnr€p\is : adv. violently, eagerly. 

Sroireros : unspeakable, indescribably 
great, vast. 

dmnSuoriTS : shield-bearing, equiv. 
to acnrumis* 

aawk, -tSos : shield ; the general 
word, for both the large oval 
shield (dp.<l>iPpinf, B 389), and 
a smaller round shield (evtcvfckos, 
£ 797). It was made of several 
layers of ox-hide, with generally 
an outer layer of bronze. It was 
supported by a strap which passed 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



19 



over the shoulder, and was held 
by the left hand. 

atnrumjq: shield-bearing man, war- 
rior, Cf, aixfirjn^. 

*A<nr\rfi(av, -wos : Orchomenian 
town, B 511. 

oo-oa : Epic for a tivol, from os ris. 

acrcrov : adv. nearer, comp. of ayx*- 
acrcrov c7/u approach, 

acrraxysy -vos : ear of grain, B 148. 

6raT€fjLfl>Tf^, -€s: unshaken, firm, B 344. 

acrr€fjL4>€s : adv. still, T 219. 

^Aaripuw : Thessalian town, B 735. 

d(7T€/M>-a9y -CKTOs (doTi//a) I starry, 
A 44. 

dxTTepomfrrji : hurler of the lightning, 
god of the lightning, Epith. of 
Zeus. 

aamjp, -ipo^ : star, axrrrip dircopcvos 
Sirius, the dog-star. 

AcrrpdnToa : lighten, send lightning. 

aoTv, cos (fdxTTv) ; city, walled tovm 
(as made up of dwellings) ; while 
voAis is the city as the * county- 
seat/ the central point of the 
territory. 

AoTwAos : a Trojan, Z 29. 

*Xfrrv-Qvai, -oictos {Lord of the city') : 
Astyanax, name given by the 
Trojans to Hector's son Scaman- 
drius, because of Hector's protec- 
tion of the city, Z 403, X 506. 
Cf, Telemachus (son of Odysseu^ 
Neoptolemus (son of Achilles). 

"AoTwoos : a Trojan, E 144. 

*AoTu6x«a (^x^)' Hio^e^" ot Tle- 
polemus by Heracles, B 658. 

'AoTvoxi;: mother of Ascalaphus 
by Ares, B 513. 

daxoAoo), pres. inf. axj^(aKday: am 
impatient, vexed. 

^Aa-tairoi : Boeotian river, A 383. 

ArdXavTOi : like, equal. 

AraXor^pm^, -okos (<^pi7v) *. merry- 
hearted, Z 400. 



ardp (avTop): but, yet, while, li 
always stands at the beginning 
of its clause (often correl. with 
fjJv), and often marks a distinct 
contrast with the preceding situ- 
ation. Freq. however the con- 
trast is slight, when ardp means 
and or and then, rather than but. 
It is somewhat more emphatic 
than 8c, since it has a more promi- 
nent position. 

a-rdpprfro^ (rapPiio) : fearless, un- 
daunted, V 63. 

arapTrfpoi : harsh, angry, A 223. 

aTourOaXtrj (arrj) : always pL, blind 
infatuation, wickedness. 

a-rcipi^, -cs (rctjpft)) : unwearied, un- 
yielding, firm. 

a-TcXcoTos (tcXos) : unaccomplished, 
unfulfilled, fruitless. 

arT€\€VTrjT<K (xcXcvrao)) : unaccom- 
plished. 

drep : adv. with gen., without, apart 
from. 

a-TC/OTTOs {ripiTd}) : cheerless. Ms. 

reading in Z 285. 
any (afdrrj, daw) : blind infatuation, 

ruin. 

d-rlfjudiio, aor. ^rffuurcv and d-rlfidia, 
aor. 7irtpaj(T€v (jlprj) : hold in low 
esteem, slight. 

d-rlpjoi, sup. drtpjordrTi : unhonored, 
slighted. 

driroXXo): cherish, rear, feed (of 
horses). 

aros (contracted from daros): «n- 
satiate, with gen. 

*ATp€t&fs and 'ArpcW, -cdvo9 : son 
of Atreus. Epith. of Agamem- 
non and Menelaus ('Arpct&u). 
When vrithout special qualifica- 
tion, it generally refers to Aga- 
memnou. 

drptKU : adv. truly, really. 

drp€K€ta^ : adv. truly, exactly. 



20 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



&rp€fuis (rpc/buu) : adv. still, motion- 

l€M. 

•Arpcife, -cos : Atreus, son of Pelops, 
father of Agamemnon and Mene- 
laus, B 105 1 

a-Tpofjjoi (rpifiM) : (without trem 
Ming) , fearless . 

drpvyeToq: restless, Epith. of the 
sea and the aether. (Of uncer- 
tain derivation and meaning; 
some editors take it as barren.) 

drpvTiavrf : unwearied, invincible. 
Epith. of Athena. 

drvCofiOL, SLOT, partic. arv^fU : am 
confused f am frightened. 

'Arv/nvca&TS : son of Atymnius, My- 
don, E 581. 

aZ: adv. again , anew, on the other 
hand, but now (forming a tran- 
sition). 

Avycuu pi.: (l)Lacedaemonian town, 
B 583. (2) Locrian town, B 532. 

avyrj : gleam, brightness. 

Avyrfia&j^ : son of Augeas, Agasthe- 
nes, B 624. 

av8dii>, 3d pers. impf . rfiSa, iterative 
aor. av&ija-aa'Ke (av&;) : speak, t6- 
aov av&/crao-icc shouted so loud (of 
Stentor), E 786. 

av^: voice. 

avcpvfd, aor. avipvimv (dm, f€pv<a, 
av f€pvio, &ff€pv<i}) : draw up. 

avSi : adv. right there, there, here. 

avkqi courtyard, court (situated 
before the house; the wpoOvpov 
and alOovaa lead from it into the 
house) ; farm yard. 

AvA/s, -t8o9 : Atdis, a Boeotian har- 
bor on the Euripus (opposite 
Chalcis in Euboea) where the 
Achaean forces gathered in order 
to set sail together for Troy, 
B 303 ff., 496. 

avX-CyiTL^, -i3os (avXjoq, tMjf) : with 
high reed. Epith. of a helmet, 



with high reed-like standard for 
the crest. (Or, with holes in the 
visor for the eyes.) See xo/ovs. 

avrdp {atrt, op) : on the other hand, 
but, yet. Equiv. to arap. 

a^^T€: conj. again, anew, but; in 
general equiv. to av. 

avrrj: shout, battle-cry. 

avT-^pjap: the same day, that very day. 

avTuca (avros) : adv. at once, straight- 
way. 

avri? (av) : adv. again, a second 

time, afterwards, back again. 
avToOi (avros) : adv. right there. Cf. 

avTO-Koxriyvrp'Oi : own brother. 

avro-fiaros : of (his) own accord. 

avros, avnj, avro : intensive pron., 
self, generally of the 3d pers., 
himself, herself; rarely used of 
things. It is intensive not merely 
in the nom. and when associated 
with a noun or pers. pron., as in 
Attic, but also when standing 
alone in the oblique cases ; some- 
times, however, the intensive idea 
(of contrast) is not easily ex- 
pressed in Eng. avros contrasts 
the man with his associates, his 
adversaries, his horses, his weap- 
ons, his soul (A 4), etc. It allows 
of a large variety of translations; 
e.g. in person, alone (by himself), 
of free will, avr^v oSov is 

equiv. to Attic ravriyv r^v avr^ 
68ov, covros is equiv. to euros 6 
avros. In the gen. it is some- 
times in agreement with the gen, 
implied in a possessive pron., e.g. 
Ipjov avTov kXcos (since ipjov is 
equiv. to c/aov), ra (r avr^s tpya 
(since o-a is equiv. to o-ov). 

avTov (strictly local gen. of avros) : 
adv. in the same place, right there^ 
right here. Cf. avBi, avrd^. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



21 



^vro^4>6v(K : a Theban, A 395. 

avTw^ (avros): adv. in the same way. 
The connection alone decides the 
exact meaning. A large variety 
of translations is required; e,g. 
as I amy without occasion, wholly, 
vainly, mere, 

av^iyv, -cyos: neck, 

avtii, aor. ^o-c and avo-ev : shout, 

6.<fyiup€OfiaLi see airtympioiMi take 
away. 

a<fy<LfmpTdy(09 aor. partic. d^fux/}- 

Towg : lose, am bereft. 
d^afuipro-€7n/s, -cs (l^ros): erring 

in speech, uttering idle words, 

T216. 

Snftavroi {^xuviS) : unseen, out of 

sight, destroyed. 
a^ap: adv. straightway. 
diffoM, pres. partic. ai^wtuvra (airro- 

fuu, itfrf) : handle. 
dijxCq: aor. opt. of d<^ti;/LU (send 

off ), hurl. 
d^eXorro : aor. of aaroaipiofjuu take 

away. 

d^vo9y -cos t plenty, wealth. 

&ifh€aTaT€ : stand aloof, perf . of d^t- 
GTrjfU set at a distance. 

d^-iTfro) : f ut. of d<^i7/bu send away. 

d-^iro$ (<liOCv<o): imperishable, in- 
destructible. 

aif^vqiMJL, fat. d<^i7o-(i>, aor. opt. d^ti;: 
send off, hurl. 

dfj^HKavfa: come, as perf. am come. 

Su^rlfmna, aor. dircony, perf. d^c- 
orare : set at a distance ; aor. and 
perf. intrans., s/antf at a distance, 
stand aloof. 

dffwcioq (a<l>€vo9) : rich, wealthy, 
abounding (with gen. of fulness). 

^^^fMooiua, aor. opt. pass. a<l>opfirf 
Sciey: set out. 

a^oyma : partic. of dffidxo handle. 

d-^/oa8eo)s : thoughtlessly, inconsider* 
ately. 



d-^pa&i;: thoughtlessness, folly, igno- 
rance. 

d'<l>paiv<ii (<^/:>vv): am a fool. d<^pai- 
vovra playing the fool. 

*A<^po8fTi; : Aphrodite, Venus, 
daughter of Zeus and Dione, 
E 348, 370 1, wife of Hephaestus, 
goddess of beauty and love. She 
led Helen to follow Paris to Troy, 
and she favored the Trojans in 
their conflicts. T 380 ff., ^ 416 ff. 

d<^pos : foam. 

d'<l>p(av, -ovos {<f>prfv) : simpleton. 

d-<f>vXXoi {<l>vXXov) : leafless, B 425. 

d^vcro-o), fut., a<f>vi€Lv: draw (water 
or wine), collect, heap up (wealth). 

*Axajud&es, -d&ov pi. : adj. as subst 
Achaean women. 

*A)(aust -tSos : Achaean, Achaea. 
'AxouSes Achaean women (con- 
temptuously used of the men). 

'A^aios: Achaean; -pi. the Achaeans. 
The most powerful race of the 
Greeks at the time of the Trojan 
war. Phthiotis (in Thessaly) 
was one of their principal seats. 
Homer often uses this name for 
all the Greeks. Their epithets 
are cvio^^t&s (well-greaved), Koprf 
KO/iOCDKrcs (long-haired), )(aXKO)(C' 
Towcs (bronze-clad). 

dxevia or dx^o> (ax©?) ' grieve, sor- 
row, am troubled (Bvpuov in heart). 

a^($oiwx (dx^os) : am burdened, dis- 
tressed. 

*AxtAXcvs or 'AxtA-cus, -^09 : son of 
Peleus and Thetis, leader of the 
Myrmidons and Hellenes in Thes- 
saly, the mightiest warrior before 
Troy, the principal hero of the 
Iliad. During the siege he had 
captured 12 Trojan cities on the 
coast, and 11 in the interior, 
I 328 fF. Among his prizes was 
the youthful Briseis whom Aga^ 



22 



VOCABULABY TO THE 



memnan unjustly takes from 
him. This act of the king leads 
to the fi^Mf of Achilles, who with- 
draws from the conflict and does 
not return to it until the death 
of his comrade Patroclus (in 11). 
In the Nineteenth Book of the 
lliadt Achilles is reconciled to 
Agamemnon and prepares for bat- 
tle with the Trojans. He slays 
Hector in the Twenty-second 
Book, and ill-treats the corpse, 
but finally gives Hector's body 
back to the aged Priam (in O). 
dxA.vs» -vos : misL 

&Xyri : foam (of the sea), chaff (of 
grain). 

3.j(in)/ua: grieve, am troubled, Cf. 

Sx'^y -cos : grief, sadness. 

i&0V looking silly, casting a fool- 
ish look. 

&Xpus : adv. completely, wholly, 

dxyp/MI i&XVpoy)'- place where the 
chaff falls as it is winnowed; loose- 
ly, heap of chaff, 

dij/ : adv. hack, back again, backward, 

iilfU, -t8o5 {avToi) : mesh, 

Silf-oppoi (opwfu): adj. returning, 
back, 

iio, SLOT, 3am : sate, 

3i<ofyro : hung, plpf . of actpca lift. 

B. 

jSafcD: speak, say. 

Pa$v^, PaBtloL, fiafiv, fem. gen. /3a- 

Birp or PaBuTfi : deep, deep-bayed, 

extended, high (of standing grain). 
Pa$v-(r)(pivo9 : reedy, bearing tall 

reeds. Epith. of the Asopus, 

A 383. 

j9(uVo>, fut. p-qa^oiMoi, aor. trans. 
jS^orc, aor. mid. jSi/o-cro, aor. in- 



trans. iprjjv, perf. 3d pers. pL 
P^P^om, plpf. (i)P€pTjKa(y) : go, 
come, walk; 1st aor. act., cause to 
go ; 2d aor. act., inceptive, set out. 
Ptpdaa-i ivtavTOi years have passed; 
ifiav <l>€f}ov<rai {set out carrying), 
carried away, cf. 6i)(€aOaA irpo^ 
powroL. 

fidWia, aor. (i)PaXoy, aor. mid. as 
pass. PX^O, perf. pipKrfrajL, plpf. 
PtfiXriKGLvi throw, hurl, shoot, hit 
with a missile. PaXiryjiv cv ;(cp- 
(Ttv laid in the arms, fidXje KvicXa 
placed the wheels, tfuXorrjTa PaXi$y 
fuv shall we inake friendship, m 
^pco-i PaXXxo receive in thy mind, 
take to heart. 

Pdv: for ifiay [Attic UPrjcray], set 
out, aor. of Polvw go, 

PapPapo-ffHuvo^ (^om^) :• rough" 
voiced, with reference to the 
harshness of the Carian dialect 
The word Papfiapoi for * non- 
Greek,' * foreigner,' is not found 
in Homer, just as the poet has no 
one word for « all Greece.' B867. 

fiapvyta (Papv^): weigh down, op- 
press. 

Papv^, Papcio, Papv: heavy, mighty, 
grievous, papv <rr€vd\iay groan- 
ing heavily. 

Pas : aor. par tic. of Paiim go. 

PamKeS^, -^os : king, prince. This 
title is applied more freely than 

Paa-tkevia, fut. PamkEvaopjey : am 

king {queen), reign. 
PamXr]fiSf -tSos : pertaining to the 

king, royal, Z 193. 
PdiTKio (paIv<o) : go. 
Pdrriy [c/JiynyF] : aor. dual of Paaw 

go. 

BarUui (Pdm) : Thomhitt, a hill 
near Troy, before the Scaean gate^ 
B813. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



23 



P€pdSm perf., fitfiijKtiv plpf.: of 

Paivia go. 
pipXifXi pipXrjfToxi perf. pass, of 

PqXKm hit. 
PtfipiS^ia {PiPpwTKHi) : eaty devour^ 

A 35. 

BeA\cpo^om79 : son of Glaucus, 
grandson of Sisyphus. His 
story is rehearsed at length, 
Z 153-201. 

piXoHi (PaXkwi) : missUef arrow. 

PhSoi, -co? (fiaBii) : depth. 

ooficy [)37(r6>/Acv], jSiyo [jSw] : aor. 
of Ptuvta go. 

PrfXo^: threshold, 

B^ova: Ix>crian town, B 532. 

Pi)(rm: glen, ravine. 

BCaSf "ovroq: a lieutenant of Nes- 
tor, A 296. 

PiPriiu (Pcuvfo) : go, fwxpa 
Pdyra with long strides. 

pCq; mighty strength; pi. deeds of 
vioUnee, violence. Freq. in periph- 
rasis (ef. ficvo9, trOivo^f i(VP)f 
Upid^jMo pCrf the might of Priam, 
the mighty Priam, piq^HpaKXrjelrf 
the mighty Heracles. 

P(rf-<l>iy: old locat., in might, 

Pi6<s: bow. 

pCoTos (Puk) : life, means of life, 
wealth. 

pXaarna, aor. pass, partic. p\a<fy 
Oeyre : weaken, hinder, hold back. 

PX-qiJUEvoii, pXSjaOojLj pXSjro : aor. 
mid. as pass, of PaXKia hit, 

pXj&o'Kia, aor. partic. /ioXovoia: go. 

Boaypios : a stream in eastern Lo- 
cris, emptying into the sea oppo- 
site the northwest comer of 
Euboea, B 533. 

Poauui, pres. partic. Poomre^ (fiorf) : 
shout, cry aloud. 

Poeiff iPof!s) : ox-hide, shield of ox- 
hide {sc, cUnriv). 



Pocuk: of cattle, yev/m Poeui ox- 

sinews, boto-string. 
Poqi shout, outcry, pdip^ ayoBo^ 

good at the war-cry, valiant in war 

(esp. of Menelaus and Diomed). 
BoCPij: in Thessaly, not far from 

Pherae, on the lake to which it 

gives its name, B 712. 
BoiPrjk, -(So9 : BoiPry,^ XifJwrj Boe- 

bean lake, B 711. 
Boion-oi : the Boeotians, B 494, 510, 

E710. 

Po6*avTt^ : partic. of Poom shout, 
^opijf^y gen. Bopeao: Boreas, north 

wind. (See Svefjuoq.) 
PwTKioi pasture, feed. 
PorpvSov (poTpvs) : adv. in clusters 

like grapes, of swarms of bees, 

B89. 

PovPwv, -aivo9 : groin, A 492. 

PovKoX.€to (povKoXoq;) i tend cattle. 

BovKoXoov, -coros: eldest son of 
Laomedon, Z 22. 

Povkevn^: councillor, member oj 
the PovXri, Z 114. 

PavXtiio, f ut. PovXcva-QfuVf aor. Pov 
XeSmLTo (povXrj) : advise, counsel; 
mid. deliberate, plan. 

PovXy: advice, counsel, plan, will, 
purpose ; council, composed of 
ycpoKTCs elders. 

PovXrf-tliopoi: counsel-giver, council" 
lor. Epith. of princes. 

PavXofjuai ()8auAiJ, volo) : wish, 
will, prefer. Because of its com- 
parative idea, it is sometimes 
followed by ^, like PavXopm 
fjtaXXov. 

Pov-ttXt^, -^yos : ox-goad, whip, 
Z135. 

BovTr/Murioy : ancient town in north- 
em Elis, B 615. 

P6v^, gen. )8oos, nom. pi. /Joes, dat. 
pi. poeaa-i or Povari, acc. pi. poa^ 
or Pov9i oic^cow; pi. cattle. 



24 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



PoSnrii, hSo$ (fiov9, tajf) : {ox-eyed), 

large eyed. Epith. esp. of Hera, 

0o5nns voTvia "H/wy. 
PpaL\m : roar, grate loudly, 
PfUfuo, mid. PpifuofMi; roar, fjue- 

yaXa fipifiju roars loudly, 
Pp^Xf^ : forehead, E 586. 
Bpuipem^: a hundred-armed giant, 

called Briareiis by the gods, but 

AiyouW by men, A 403. 
PpCCio (PplOiii) : am sluggish, inaC' 

live, A 223. 
PplBwTvvri : weight, burden, load. 
Ppl&v^, -€ta, -v : heavy. 
BpHaev^, : father of Briseis, 

A 392. 

Bpun^s, -iSos : daughter of Briseus, 
a beloved captive of Achilles, 
from whom she was taken un- 
justly by Agamemnon. She was 
returned to Achilles after the 
reconciliation, in the Nineteenth 
Book of the Iliad. A 184, 336; 
B 689, T 245 f ., 282 ff. 

Pponr6r<i<i, -crros (Pporoi) : bloody, 
gory. 

PpoTo-Xoiyo^ (PpoTo^) : man-destroy- 
ing, Epith. of Ares. 

PpoTo^ (jjLfHyroi mors) : mortal, 
both as adj. and subst. 

'Bpvaeuxi pi. : a Lacedaemonian 
town, B 583. 

Piapj&$ (PoAVfo) : (base), altar. 

Biapos : a Trojan ally, E 44. 

PfDTL-di/eipa: men- (hero-) nourishing. 
Epith. of Phthia, A 155. 

r. 

yaia : earth, land, ground. Opposed 
sometimes to the heavens, some- 
times to water. Equiv. to yrj, 
ata, 

yaio>: rejoice, exult, 

yoAo, gen. yoAa^ros (lac): milk. 



yaXooK, dat. yaXocp: husband's sis* 
ter. 

yofifipo^ (ydpjoi) : connection by 
marriage, daughter's husband, sis- 
ter's husband. 

ydpjoii marriage, 

Vaw-p.-qbirfi, -cos {Glad-hearted) {pSj- 
&>s) : Ganymed, son of Tros 
(founder and king of Troy), 
grandson of Dardanus; because 
of his beauty, carried away by 
the gods to be the cup-bearer of 
Zeus, E 266, Y 232. 

yap (yc, apa) : causal particle, for. 
It often introduces the reason or 
explanation of something that is 
merely implied. Sometimes it 
seems to retain the force of the 
two particles of which it is com- 
posed, and cannot be translated 
by for, but * marks a statement 
as certain and incontestable.' 

yajtmjp, -epos : belly, stomach, womb. 

yc : an enclitic particle, which gives 
prominence to the foregoing word 
or to its whole clause. Some- 
times it can be translated at least, 
but this phrase is much heavier 
and clumsier than yc. Gener- 
ally its force must be given by 
inflection of voice, or by aiTange- 
ment of words. In several cases, 
y* was wrongly inserted by the 
copyists, after some other conso- 
nant had been lost. 

ycyaa)ra9 : perf . partic. of yiyvopai 
am bom, 

ytivopax, aor. iyetyojo : am bom; aor. 

begot, bore, 
yeXdui, aor. iy€Xajo-<r€, aoi. partic. 

ycXaaoaa (ycXos): laugh ; aoT.feU 

to laughing, burst into a laugh, 
ycXoicos: laughable, what would raise 

a laugh, B 215. 
ycAxos (or ycXos) : laughter* 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



25 



ycvei; (yew) and y€V€$\rf: race, 
generation, breed (of horses), yc- 
vey in age. yeviOkrf dpyvpov 
fatherland of silver. 

yeyiaOcu, yevero: aor. of ylyvofjua, 
become, am bom. 

yeyvauK (yci/05): suited to (my) birth, 
in (my) nature. 

yevo^, -cos : race, family, birth, de- 
scent, yem voTcpos later by birth, 
younger. 

yepoMq (y5/oas) 3 : old, full of years; 

subst. old man, aged man. yepauu 

matrons, 
yipavo^i crane. 

ytftapo^ (yipas) : stately, T 170. 

y€papfaT€poi : more stately, T 211. 

yepas, pi. ycpa : prize of honor. 
Booty taken on marauding expe- 
ditions was the common prop- 
erty of the army only after the 
several prizes of honor had been 
distributed to the chiefs. These 
prizes were sometimes selected 
by the leaders themselves, but 
are often spoken of as gifts of 
the people. Doubtless they were 
distributed by the general, with 
the approval of the army. 

Fcpi/vios: Geranian. Epith. of Nes- 
tor, prob. from a Messenian 
town or district. 

yepoixnos : of the elders (ycpoKTcsr). 
Epithet of special wine broached 
at the * aldermanic ' dinners. 

yipwv, -ovTos, voc. ycpov: old, aged 
man. o2 yipovre^ elders of the 
people, the nobles, who without 
regard to age formed a fiovXn^ or 
council; cf. the Spartan yepov- 
aCn, sen at us, aldermen. 

y€<f>vpai pi. : (bridges), dikes. Figur. 
voXcfWio y€<f>vpai bridges of war, 
i.e. the lanes between the two 
opposing lines of combatants. 



(Or, acc. to others, the open 
spaces between the different 
divisions of the same army.) 
y^: contracted from yata (yea) 
earth. 

yrfiiiii, aor. yrfirjacv: rejoice, am glad, 

yqOoawoi 3 : glad. 

yrjpasy -aos : old age. 

yripaxTKin {yrjpasi) : grow old. 

y^pvs : voice, cry, A 437. 

yCyvopm, aor. (l)y€vcfVTo, perf. ye 
yaaori (ycvos) : come into existence, 
am born, become, arise, npo oSov 
iyiyovTo came forward (yrpo) on 
their march, 

ytyvQxrica), fut. yvcoo'cot, aor. lyvco or 
yvtu : recognize, perceive, learn, 
know. 

yXayos, -cos (yoXa) : milk. 

FAavKos: Glaucus. (1) Son of 
Sisyphus, father of Bellerophon. 
(2) Grandson of Bellerophon, 
brave leader of the Lycians, 
B 876, Z 150 ff. 

yXavK-i&iri'i, -i8os (yXavKos, «S^) : 
bright-eyed, gleaming-eyed. Epith. 
of Athena, as the fierce-eyed god- 
dess of war. Homer does not 
mention the yXav^ owl. 

TXa<l>vpax : Thessalian town, B 712. 

yXa^vpoq 3 : hollow. 

FAfoas, -aKTos : Boeotian town, near 
Thebes, B 504. 

yXovTos: buttock. 

yAvicus, -€10, -V, comp. yXvKiwv: sweet. 

y\v<f>kt -tSos: notch in the arrow; 
one notch for the string, others 
(around the arrow) to secure a 
firmer hold for the fingers. 

yXoKTo-a: tongue; language. 

yvoLffv : aor. opt. of ytyvwo-KO) know. 

yvvi (yovu) : on the knee. yvv$ Iptirc 
fell upon his knee, 

yvw aor. ind., yv<u and yvoiQxnv aor. 
subjv., yvco/Acvoi aor. inf., yvcoo-coi 



26 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



fat. ind.: of yiynMnco) hnowy learn, 
recognize, 

yvwros (yiyviaa-Koi) 3: (^known, ac- 
quaintance^, brother. 

yooo), pres. partic. fern, yoooxra, 
impf. yoov (7009) : groan, lament 
toith groans, 

Fokoca-aa : Achaean town near Pel- 
lene. 

ywos (yiyvofmi) : offspring, son, 

yow, nom. or acc. pi. yovmra and 
yowa, gen. pi. yowcDv, dat. pi. 
youvam (genu) : knee. The 
knees were to the ancients the 
seat of bodily strength, hence 
youvar IXvcrcv loosed his knees, 
took away his strength. In en- 
treaties, the suppliant clasped 
the knees of him from whom he 
sought the favor, Xafitav IXXur- 
aero yovytap clasped his knees and 
besought him, 

yoov : impf. of yodxa lament, Z 500. 

yoo9 : groan, lamentation. 

ropycios 3 : of the Gorgon, Gorgon's. 

rd/yrus, -vvos: Gortys or Gortyna, 
an important town in Crete, 
B646. 

yavva or yovmra acc. pi., yovmcri 
dat. pi. : of yow knee. 

yovvaioiULL, int. yovvaxrofjuu (yow): 
supplicate, entreat. See yoyv. 

Touvets, ^os : leader of the Aenians 
before Troy, B 748. 

Tpaia : a Boeotian town near Oro- 
pus from which the later name 
TpaiKoi {^Greeks) is thought to 
be derived, B 498. 

ypaffiu}, aor. partic. ypaxfrwi : scratch, 
cut. ypaaj/a^ cv vivoki cutting on 
a tablet; doubtless this was not 
writing with an alphabet, but a 
pictorial representation of what 
had been done or was to be done. 

yfnfi^, dat. ypfqt', old woman. 



yvaXxjy : curved, curved plate of the 
cuirass; one such plate prob. 
forming the front, and another 
the back of the Owprf^. (See 

Tvyalrj (Xifivri) : the Gygaean lake 
in Lydia near Sardis, and the 
nymph of that lake, B 865. 

yvW: i Joint), limb, member (of 
knees, feet, arms, hands), rpo- 
fio9 ^Wafit yvia trembling seized 
his limbs, yvia ft iOr/Key cXa^/oa 
made his limbs light. 

yvmi'fJUjLvijq, -cos (fuuvio) : woman- 
mad, of Paris. 

ywiy, dat. yvvaiKi, acc. yvmtica, voc. 
yvvai : woman, wife. 

Tvfyrwvrj : town of the Lapithae, in 
Pelasgiotis, B 738. 

yv^, yuTTOs : vulture. 

A. 

&ii;/Aevai (aor. inf.), aor. subjv. SoJo- 
fuv : learn ; used as pass, of 
(TKO) teach. 

Sdi^p, '€po9 : husband's brother, 

&u&£Xcos 3 : cunningly wrought, 
richly ornamented. 

SaiSoAov : cunning work, 

Sai^io, aor. inf. Sdf^cu : rend, cleave. 

SoLfwvioi (SalfjLtiiv) 3: (one under 
the influence of a divinity), strange 
goddess, sir ! Saifwvie my poor wife 
(or husband). The connection 
must determine the exact force. 

Baifjuav, -ovos: divinity; much like 
Oeo^, but esp. of the gods in rela- 
tion with men. (Never demon.) 

SouVvfuu: feast. 

&US, gen. &uro9 (Sa/wfuu) : feast. 
^Tpov : measured portion, A 262. 
8oLL-<l>ptov, -OKO? : fiery-hearted, valiant. 
Stuo), plpf. SeSn^av: kindle; plpf. 
had blazed forth, was blazing. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



27 



&jkFa>, aor. Sore : bite, figur. sting, 

Sdxpv (lac rum a): tear. 

6aKpv6-€vq, -tarn: tearful, shedding 
tears, bringing tears. 

ioKpvoy: equiv. to Sojcpv, tear. 

Saucpwo, aor. Sajcpwra^: weep, shed 
tears; aor. fell to weeping, 

idfmp, -a/jTos : wife, spouse. 

Sdfunjfu, impf. cSdl/xva, fut. Sofw! and 
SofjuDUKriv, aor. {€)Sdfiaja-aa^ aor. 
pass. ^SofiT, aor. subj. pass. &i- 
fJiT^ff^t perf. pass. SeS/ni/fieo^, 
plpf. pass. 868f»7aro, aor. partic. 
8/x)70enra: 6nn^ into subjection, 
subdue, overcome, conquer, 

loyooi: the Danadns; strictly de- 
scendants or subjects of king 
Danaiis of Argos. Used for the 
Greeks before Troy like *kypM)C 
and 'Apyetoc They are called 
ra-xyiTioKM (with swift steeds), 

haareSov: floor, pavement, 

Sdirria, aor. ^Sd^cv : devour, tear, 

Aap8avi%79: son of Dardanus, Epith. 
esp. of his descendant Priam. 

/iap&u'ios 3 and AdpSavo^ : Darda- 
nian : pi. the Dardanians, inhabi- 
tants of the country around Troy, 
led by Aeneas, B 819. They re- 
ceived their name from Dardanus 
(son of Zeus), who was the grand- 
father of Tros (who gave his 
name to TpoC-q the Troad) and 
the great-grandfather of Hus 
(who gave his name to *lX£os), 
Y 215 ff. 

^dpip, -rp-o^ : Dares, priest of He- 
phaestus, in Troy, E 9 ff . 

SaarpjOi (Souoi, SariofioL) : distrtbu- 
tion, division, of the spoils, A 166. 

Sarcofuu, aor. iaffmnvro, perf. pass. 
Sc&urrcu : divide among themselves, 
distribute, 

AavXt9, -1805: Phocian town, on a 
height east of Delphi, B 520. 



ha-^oivoi : all blood-red, 

Satofuy: learn, aor. subjv. pass, of 
8t&£o-Ko> teach. 

8e: conj. but, and, Freq. 8c is 
used in the apodosis of a condi- 
tional or relative clause, — a 
transition to the demonstrative 
construction, or a survival of the 
older and simpler * paratactic ' or 
* coordinate * construction. Freq. 
a clause with 8c is used where a 
subordinate clause (of cause, con- 
cession, time, etc.) might have 
been used; hence 8c may often 
be translated, ybr, though, while. 

-8c: inseparable enclitic particle; 
e,g. dyopi/vSe to the agora, oUovic 
to the house, homeward. 

iiyfjLevtK: waiting, aor. of S^xpfMoi 
receive, expect. 

8c8iurr(U : perf. of ^riofjuxi divide. 

Scicy/jLevfK : waiting, on the watchf 
perf. partic. of Bexopai. 

8c8c^: receive (in hostile sense)* 
perf. imv. of Bixpfuu, 

SeSi/fiv: was blazing, plpf. of Saua 
kindle. 

S^^ero : plpf. pass, of 8ca> bind J 
^Bfirjaro plpf*, SeSfii^fua-^a perf. ; 

were (are) subject, pass, of SdfwrjfU 

subdue, 

Se&firjfitvoi : perf. pass, of 8cfuu build. 
SiioTcu : perf. pass, of 8i8a)/uu give. 
8ci8cxaro : were pledging, plpf. mid. 

of SeLKyvfU (extend the hand)^ 

show. 

Sci^fitav, -ovos (SctScj) : fearful, 
cowardly. 

i€i&L<y(ropai (8ci8a>) : frighten; am 
frightened. 

8ei8a>, aor. (!)8cMrcv, perf. 8eiS(KKa, 
perf. imv. 8ci8t^, perf. partic. 
8ct8iarcs, plpf. c86t8tfi£y (hptl&a, 
8cos): fear, am afraid. Since 
the stem originally began with 



28 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



two consonants, a short vowel is 
often * long by position ' before it, 

StucvvfU, aor. Scifcv, pipf. SetSe^ro : 
point out, show ; plpf . pledge. 

8ci\os 3 : cowardlyy worthless, miser- 
able. 

Scifui, -aros (Sco$) : fright, terror. 

^€ipAi : Terror, attendant of Ares. 
See *Apiy5. 

8eivos(8€os) »3: terrible, fear/ul,dread. 
$cii/ov cvcvcv nodded terribly. 

hfXTTVQv'. dinner; the chief meal of 
the day whenever it was taken, 
whether early or late ; generally 
eaten about noon. Cf. apurrov 
breakfast, ^pirov supper. 

Scifn^: neck. 

Seure : aor. of SctiScj fear. 

Scica: indeclinable, ^€n. As a round 

number, B 489, A 347. 
Sf-KoSi -a3o9 : decade, squad of ten. 
ScKaro? 3 : tenth, ^Karg on the 
• tenth day. 

ScKa-xlXoc: ten thousand, E 860. 
ScKTo : aor. of ^^opai accept. 
Scftas : build, stature, form. 
Sc/uo, perf . pass. StSprfpivoi : build. 
S^peovitree. (ScvSpecp is disyllabic.) 
Sc^ai, SefiurAu: aor. of S^xopai re- 
ceive. 

Se^irj : right-hand (sc. X€ip), pledge. 
Se^ios 3 and 8e^ircpos 3: right, on 

the right. 
8€os, -€09 (S^cos) : fear, dread. 
SeiraSf dat. pi. Sfirdxa-mv : goblet, 

beaker, cup. Cf. kvttcXXov. 
apKopM: look, see, have sight, 
hippo, -aros : hide, leather (of a 

shield). 
Scpo), aor. &apavi flay, 
Sea-pjOi (Sco)) : bond, halter (of a 

horse). 

Scvpo, 8cvpa> (r 240) : adv. hither. 
Sometimes as an interjection, 
come hither I 



Scvrcpor: adv. second, next, 

hevrepoq : second, next. 

Stvopm ; lack, am in want. 

Sevcu: moisten, wet. 

hlxppajL, aor. (i)S€$aTo, aor. inf. 

iexOat, perf. imv. 8c8c^o, fut. perf. 

as fut, heSi^opm: receive, take, 

accept; await, receive (in hostile 

sense). 

Siw, aor. (<)8i7<ra»', plpf. ScScto: 6mc?, 
fetter. 

temporal and determinative 
particle, now, already, at length; 
clearly. Just. No Eng. particles 
correspond to many of its uses. 
Freq. with imv. and opt., and 
with other particles, and strength- 
ening the superlative. It stands 
at the beginning of the clause in 
the phrases t6t€, 8^ yap. It 
forms one syllable (by *synize- 
sis*) with the first syllable of 
avrc, av, and of ovtcds, and sev- 
eral other words. 
hrfid (^) : adv. long, for a long 
time. 

hrjOtv<o: delay, tarry. 

ArfiKOiav, -wkto? : Trojan, killed by 
Agamemnon, E 534. 

dvjuK (Saici)) : blazing, devouring, de- 
stroying, hostile; pi. enemies. 

hqwn^, -^Tos (Siytos) : strife, con 
flict. 

Si/ioo), impf. Sgovv, aor. subjv. 8»ya>- 
a-iiHTiv, aor. pass, partic. SrfwOtv- 
TCtfv : slay, cut down, destroy. 

Ai/iirvAo9: comrade of Sthenelus. 
E 325. 

hrfkiopjai, aor. (l)&rj\'qauvro : harm, 

lay waste. 
AtfpTfrrjp, gen. Ai^prprpos : Demeter, 

Ceres. 

Srfpjo-Popos (PifipwrKw) : people^ 
devouring, " devouring the goods 
of the people." A 2&U 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



29 



ivfiuyyiptov, -orros : elder of the peo- 
phf in Troy. 

Af/fjLOKowVf HovTo^i SOU of PHam, 
slain by Odysseus, A 499. 

S7/XOS: country, land; people. &jfwv 
tu^Spa man of the people, com- 
mon man, contrasted with the 
nobles. 

&}v (S/riyv) : adv. long, for a long 

time, long-lived. 
irjvaMi (^v) : long-Hoed, E 407. 
S^vos, -COS : pi* thoughts, 
Sjj6<»y: see Si/too) slay, destroy. 
&ipw i adv. long. Cf ^qS^ ^v. 
S^jauv : aor. of 8eo) bind. 
hQinOivTtav aor. pass, partic, hgwaio- 

<nv aor. subjv. : of &;coa> slay. 
Aux : acc. of Zcvg. 

Sa : fern, of Sioq magnificent, divine. 

&a (8w>) : adv. and prep, with gen. 
and acc, between, through, in dif- 
ferent directions. &a kt^civ Sare- 
cvTo divided (parted) among them 
the property, 81^ rpCxa Koa-firjOtvTt^ 
divided in three tribes, Sta axnrtSoq 
through the shield, &a wr/uva': 
through (by means of) the con- 
flicts, &a vvKTa during the night, 
&a fuunroavvrjv (on account of), 
by means of his gift of prophecy. 
In composition with verbs, &a 
indicates motion through some- 
thing, completion, separation, re- 
ciprocal relation. 

SuL-Opvirro), aor. pass, partic. Suvrpv- 
<l>€v : break in pieces, T 363. 

ficaricAa^ai, aor. partic. &a#cAao-aa9 : 
break in pieces, E 216. 

8ia-#co(r/Li€o>, aor. opt. pass. Suucoafirf 
$€ip£v (jccxr/Aos) : divide and ar- 
range. Cf dispono. 

Sia-Kplwa, fut. ficfiucpcvcci, aor. pass. 
SiCKpi^cv [SuKpCBrffrav'], aor. inf. 
pass. Scoxpivft^/ACKU : separate, 
arrange in divisions. 



BuxKTopos : messenger. Freq. epith. 

of Hermes, generally connected 

with apy€i<l>ovTrp. 
&-afu£o>, aor. ^dfirjo't: (mow through), 

cut through. 
&a-fierpea) : measure off ground for 

a combat, T 315. 
SuL-fUTprjTo^ : measured off, T 344. 
&-a/Li9r€pes: adv. through and through^ 

completely through, right through, 
ht-av-hixa ' adv. in two ways. 
SuL-wepOw, aor. inf. Sunrep^rai, aor. 

Si€vpdOop€v : sack, lay waste. 
huL-iropBlia, aor. partic. Suuro/Q^i/aas: 

sack, destroy, B 691. 
huor^p-qaiTUi'. accomplish (go, pass 

through) ; intrans. advance; with 

gen. 'ircSuMo on the plain, 
huor^po : adv. forward and through, 

right through. 
Sta-ppalui, aor. inf. Buippaurcu: tear 

in pieces, rend. 
SuL-aKiSvrjpx : send in different direc- 
tions, scatter. 
Sta-fTO-ewo, plpf. SuaavTo: rush 

through. 

8ca-onfn7V : (stood apart), separated, 
aor. of Suqrrjpx separate. 

Sca-rfn/yo), aor. pass. Stirfmyev [8tc- 
TpAyrforav']: (ciU through), separate. 

Sut-rptpta: (wear auMy), hinder, at- 
tempt to check. 

Sui-rpv<f}iy : aor. pass, partic. of 
Sco^punro) break in pieces, T 363. 

ScSoo-KO), aor. StSo^e, aor. pass, c&xi^v, 
aor. subjv. pass. Souapjev: teach, 
instruct. 

8t8v/Aa(DV, -ovos (SiSv/AO?) : twin. 

&(S(u/uu, 3d pi. pres. SiJ8ownv, impf. 
StSov, fut. SoKTO), aor. (i)BoiK€(v) 
and Socrav, 3d sing. aor. subjv. 
&pcn, 3d pi. aor. subjv. Saxriv or 
SoSoxnv, aor. iinv. S6q, aor. inf. 
SofAcvou, 8oficv or ^ovvta, perf . pass. 
ScSoroi : give, grant. 



30 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



8i€ : impf . of &o) fear, 
^'€if>ofMai : ask, inquire. 

arrange in order. 
Si'iKptOev [SuKpiOrfonv] : aor. pass. 

of &aicpiVo) separate into tribes. 
&-€{-ci/u, inf. 3ic^i/icm: go forth 

through (the gates), Z 393. 
Si-€lrpaj9ofJxy : aor. of hutiripOm sack. 
&-cnro>: perform, accomplish; stride 

through. 
hi-€p)(Ofmi : pass through. 
&r€o-(rvro: plpf. of Suura-two rush 

through. 

&r€Tfiaycy [8t€T/Aayi;<rav] : aor. pass. 

of SuiTfiTjyta separate. 

aor. &corx^* through f 

reach through, pass through. 
hU^rjiMi : seek, look for. 
^-fvf, -vyos (fcryvu/u) : two-yoked, 

horses yoked two and two. 
Si-[(mfiu, aor. intrans. Buurrtjrrfv: 

separate. 

&f-^iA.09: dear to Zeus, esp. of 
Achilles and Hector. 

SiKo^o) Judge, decide, rule. 

( Cf. the Hebrew Jud ges, i.e. rulers.) 

StKoxr-TToXo^ C'TcX-) : guardian of 
justice, judge. 

SZvcixi) (&V17) : stroll, wander, 

8tvi/-cts, -€KTos : eddying. 

Slvfdros (&VOO)) 3: skilfully turned, 
well-wrought. 

fto-ycviys, -cos (yew) : sprung from. 
Zeus, descended from Zeus, of 
kings and princes, who were 
under the special care of the 
king of the gods. 

AiokX^s, -rjoq : son of Orsilochus of 
Pherae in Messenia, E 542 ft. 

^lOfiT^Tjs, -cos : IHomed, son of 
Tydeus (who fell in the first 
expedition against Thebes), king 
of Argos, one of the bravest and 
mightiest of the Achaeans before 



Troy. Only Agamemnon and 
Nestor led a larger fleet on the 
expedition. The Fifth Book of 
the Iliad is mainly devoted to 
his exploits, in the course of 
which he wounds Aphrodite and 
(aided by Athena) even Ares. 
He returned in safety to Argos 
at the close of the war. He is 
called fiorp^ &yaj9oi and Kpartpo^. 

Aioi^: Euboean town, south of 
Oreus, B 538. 

8ibs, Sio, tliay: glorious, divine, god- 
like, noble, without reference to 
moral quality. Freq. epith. of 
Achilles and of Odysseus, having 
convenient metrical adaptation to 
the names of those heroes, allow- 
ing the bucolic diaeresis (at the 
close of the fourth foot). 

&o-Tp€^iys, -cos (rpc^o)) : Zeus- 
nourished, Zeus-cherished, of 
kings, who enjoyed the special 
favor of 2ieus. Cf. &oycn{s. 

BC-irXai, -oKos: doubled, sc. ')(\alva 
a cloak so large that it was worn 
double ; opposed to airXocs. 

&irXoos : two-fold, double, 

hi-^mvi, •v)((K : double. 

Sio-Kos : discus, quoit. The game was 
more like * putting the shot' than 
the modem ' pitching quoits.' 

&^<^/oos: (1) foot-board of chariot, 
chariot-box, chariot; low, open 
behind, with a rounded rim 
(avrv^ around the front and 
sides. See SLppa. (2) Stool, low 
seat without a back. 

&'(tt: /car. Cf. ScCSfa. 

SuoKfn : pursue. 

Auovrj : mother of Aphrodite, E 370. 

Aicovvo-os : Dionysus, Bacchus. Son 
of Zeus and Semele, reared by 
nymphs in Thrace. The Thr*" 
cian king Lycurgus attacked the 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



31 



nyuiphs, and Dionysus fled into 
the sea, to Thetis. Z 132 ff. 
Dionysus is mentioned only inci- 
dentally in- Homer, and clearly 
has not gained a position among 
the gods of Olympus ; (c/*. Ares, 
Demeter, Asclepius). 
AtcSpi;99 -€o$: Epean commander, 
B 622. 

hiL-rfityra : aor. pass, partic. of So/ir 

ny/u overcome, subdue, 
hfiarj (Bofivrffu) : female slave, maid. 
SvoiraX^^io: (shake), slay. 
8oL€v : aor. opt. of 8iS<u/u give, grant, 
houK, Souu, Sold, dual Souo : two. 
8oK€Q): seem, appear, 
SoXtx^ ^ ' long* 

SoXxxp-fTKUK : long-shadowy, casting 
long shadows, long. Epith. of the 
lance. 

SoAo-fwyn;? (/x^is) : only voc. 8o\o- 
/x^a, crafty. 

AoXoTftw, -ovos : priest (fyrjn^p) of 
the Scamander, E 77. 

^\os: trick, deceit. 

SoXo'<f>p€V€ov<m partic. i<f>pTjv) : de- 
vising a trick, with crafty mind. 

SofAcv, Sofjxvcu [Sovvtu] : aor. inf. of 
SiScDfu give, 

SofjuK (Sc/Aco) : dwelling, house. 

Torres: aor. partic. of StSco/u give. 

Sopv, gen. Sovpos, dat. Sovpi, dual 
8ovpe, pi. Bovpara or Sovpa: tim- 
ber, beam, spear. See lyx^^. 

80s imv., Soaav ind.. Sore imv. : aor. 
of 8(8(i>fu ^tVe. 

SovXrf : female slave, equiv. to SfiwTj. 

SovXiw ^/Aop: day of slavery, i.e. 
slavery itself. 

^ov\jL\u3y : Dulichium, island in 
the Ionian sea, southeast of Ith- 
aca, inhabited by Epeans, B 625. 

AovXtxtw-8e : to Dulichium. 

necked, of swanSf 



SovTTco), aor. Sovm/o-cv; Sovn^eir 

TTCo-wv fell with a thud, 
SovTTo? : Atfav^ noise. 
8ov/Da, SovparoLj Sovpe, Sovpos : forms 

of 8opv spear, 
Sovpi-icXeiros and Sovpt-icXvro? : re- 

nowned with the spear. 
SpoKUJV, -OKTOS (SipKOfjuu) I Serpent, 

snake. (Not * dragon * though 

this word is derived from it.) 
ApTfcos : a Trojan, slain by Euryar 

lus, Z 20. 
Apvd^, nvTos: (1) one of the 

Lapithae, A 263. (2) Father 

of the Thracian king Lycurgus, 

Z 130. 

iifuevax, dnJvca: aor. inf. of Swo, enter, 

set (of the sun). 
Swo/xoi, subjy. hvvrfo, fut. hwrfcror 

pax, aor. Swrja-aroi can, am able, 
Suvft) : put on. Cf. Sua). 
hoo and hota : indeclin. ^ti^o. 
hvoKaJ&€Ka [3<tfS€Ka]: indeclin. twelve, 
hwT-i inseparable particle indicat- 
ing misfortune and pain. 
hwT-arf^, -€05 (aiy/u) : harsh-blowing. 
Svarax (with Atto, put off), 8ixrero 

«an^ : aor. of Svco. 
&Mr-7yxV5> -€os (^x*'^) • ft(if8h-sound' 

ing, ill-sounding, horrisonus. 
SiKT-icXei/Sy acc. Svo-kXcol (icXcos): 

inglorious. 
Sw-/A€njs, -COS (ftci/os) : evil-minded, 

hostile ; pi. enemies. 
Aixr-TTopts : unhappy Paris, hated 

Paris, 
Swrrrjvog: unhappy, 
Swr'X^Cpjepo^ (X^ipa): wintry, stormy^ 

epith. of Dodona, B 760. 
SiKr-fowfios (ovopa) : (ill'uamed), 

cursed, 

Sv<a, fut. Svo-ci), aor. inf. Svcnu, aor. 
mid. (i^Sva-ero, aor. ISv, perf- 
SeSvxev: enter, go into, put on; 
fut. and 1st aor. act. trans, dvi 



82 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



Svcmi put off, irpiv ^c\iov 8vmt 

before the sun set, 
Svbi : collateral form of Suo two. 
$ucS-3£ica: twelve. 
8va>-3£Karos i twelfth. 
8a>: indeclin. short form of Sw/uo, 

home, home, 
8tt)8eKa: twelve, cf, SvoKoCBeKa, 

^a»$(on7 : in £pirus, at the foot of 
Mt. Tomaros ; seat of the oldest 
oracle of the Greeks, where asce- 
tic priests interpreted the rustling 
of the sacred oak, B 750, 11 233 ft, 

Sforfia-w) subjy., 8o>ica ind. : aor. of 
8tS(t>/u give. 

iiofM, -aros: home, house, palace; 
room, esp. the large hall of the men, 

AtafMJv: town under Nestor's rule, 
B594. 

8o>poy (S&ofu) : gift, 

SoMMnv: aor. subjy. of SiScDfu give. 

E. 

c (fc) : enclitic, 3d pers. pron, ace, 
him, her; seldom neuter, It is 
equiv. to Att. avrw, avrqv, which 
is intensive in Homer, 
la Rv] (e r a m) : was, 3d sing, impf . 

of dfu am, 
la : contracted for lac (1) imv., (2) 

impf. of cdo) allow. 
cdvo9 • pliant, supple, soft, enveloping, 
cavos : robe (an aristocratic gar- 
ment) ; generally equiv. to ttcttAos, 
the principal female garment; 
but r 419, it seems to be used of 
Helen's veil. Prob. m ade of linen, 
as is indicated by the epithets. 
iap, gen. lapos (f^ap, ver) : Spring, 
laxriv [cio-tV] : 3d pi. pres. of ci/uu am, 
carat [^vrat] : 3d. pi. pres. of rjiwx sit. 
ioM, 3d pi. pres. ind. cicocn, impf. 
eia or 2a, iterat. impf. dcuTKov or 



laxTKOv, fut. iaaofuev, aor. cacre: 

allow, permit, leave (done. 
Ifiav liprjimv], ipifrqv : set out, aor. 

of )3atVo) go, 
cy-ycydoo-tv : live in, perf. of cyyt- 

yvofWJL arise in, 
iyyvaXliw, aor. inf. iyyvaXl^oA : give 

into (our) hands, grant. 
tyyv-Oev : 2idv. (from near at hand), 

near. 

iyyv-di, cyyvs : adv. near, with gen. 
iytCpio, aor. rjytipa. and €y€Lpa, mid. 

aor. cypcTo : rouse, wake. 
iy-K€<l>a\o^ (K€<l>aX'j) : brain. 
^y-xAivco, perf. €yic6#c\iTai: lean on, 

rest upon, Z 78. 
cyv(i>: learned, recognized, aor. of 

ytyvftKTKft) know. 
cypcTo : aor. of cyctpw wake. 
ey;(c«y (cyxos) : lance, spear, 
cy;(co'(-fui>pos ' spear-wielding, 
cyx€(r-7raAx)s (ttoXXo)) : spear-bran^ 

dishing, 

2y;(09»-€o$: lance, spear; generally 

of ash wood, with a bronze point. 
iy-xpifMTTo), aor. pa^. partic. ly^itr 

ijiOutra : draw near, 
cya)(v), gen. ifuio, (i)p^9 or ifiiOev, 

dat. (€)/«H, acc. (c)/x€: 1st pers. 

pron., /. 

iBdrp/ : learned, aor. pass, of 8iSa(r#cci> 
teach, 

cSo/uocrcra aor. act., cSofii; aor. pass., 
iSdfiva impf.: of Salfivrifu over- 
come, subdue. 

eheipav : aor. of Scpo) flag. 

IScio-cv: aor. of Sct&o fear. The 
first syllable is long since the 
verb stem originally began with 
two consonants (8/:t-). 

cSi/nfe, -w (28a)): eating, food. 

thfjuevai : inf. of ISo> eat, 

cSvoTToXifcv : impf. of SvoTraXti^o) slay. 

cSos, -cos (sedes) : place for a seatf 
seat, home. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



33 



RfKLfjuov : aor. of rp€)(Oi run, 
thfyri : seat, row of seats, 
cSu, iSvnjv : aor. of Swo enter, put on, 
cSvi^ev: impf. of SvutopiU on, 
l&i), f ut. l[8ofWJ. : eat, Cf. itrOito, 
tSiOKev : aor. of Si^tofu give, 
iuKoaiv : see elKoa-i twenty. 
ectTTCs, cctTTC : see tlTrov said, 
i€urdfJU€vo9 : taking the form, with 

dat. of likeness, aor. partic. of ci8<o 

appear, 

ceXSciip (IXSoftat) : wish, desire, 

iifyyaJBtv: impf. of ipydOo) separate. 

cepyet : pres. of ipyia separate, 

iep/ievta : perf . of etpio Join, 

Itppm, aor. cio-€ (ISos) : sit, aor. seated, 

trfKcv : aor. of irjfu send. 

hjv or hv [Jiv] : impf. of dp*, am. 

e^os : gen. of cife valiant, 

€§s : gen. fem. of 46s Aw. 

€»;(rt : 3d sing, subjv. of dpi am, 

f$€€v : impf. of Oim run, 

iOiXio, impf. 7jO€Xov or ^^eXov : wwA, 
am ujilling, /xi/S' l^eXc noli, do 
not desire, do not try, ovk iOikwv, 
equiv. to dcKcov, against his will. 

Wcv [o5]: gen. of 3d pers. pron., 
of him, of her. 

€$€VTo, tOeaav, tSrjKav'. aor. of ti- 
Oijpx set, place, 

iOvoi, -€os : nation, tribe, host, flock 
(of birds), swarm (of bees). 

Wq), perf. as pres. €i<u^€ : am accus- 
tomed, am wont. 

a, al : conditional particle, if 
whether (in indir. questions). It 
often introduces a wish. 
d iron) or a ttws with subjv. or 
opt. freq. can be rendered by on 
the chance that, in the hope that. 
In a 8* c[y€, d seems to be an 
interjection, come ! 

dapjevq '. low land. 

cloptvos (tip) 3 : of the springtime, 
spring. 



dais, iterat. daxTKOv: impf. of cao> 
permit, 

ehrca : 3d pi. of ^pm sit, 

€1 8* aye : hut up, come ! 

d8ap, -aros (cScn) : food, 

elSfj's subjv., ci8i/(reiv fut. inf. : of 
c^&i know, 

cISos (ftS-) : appearance. 

[ei&o] d^pm, aor. da-aro, aor. par- 
tic. (c)eio-a/i,evo9 : appear, appear 
like, take the form of, 

ctSw or lBov (aor. ind.), aor. subjv. 
i&fiTc, iterat. aor. tSeo-Kc, aor. ind. 
mid. dSovTo, aor. subjv. ISwpm 
(/rt8-, video): «att7, see, Cf, opam, 

ct&tfXov (ftS-, idol) : sAajoe, phantom, 

elSm, iSvTa : partic. of oT&i know, 

ctcv [cti^av], ctiyv: opt. of dpi am, 

d$ap : adv. straightway, 

d$€ : wouZrf <Aa/, that ! introduces 
a wish. 

cxKcXos (/TtK-) : Zt^e, resembling, 
dKWTi (fdKoai, viginti) ; indeclin. 
twenty, 

iUryjiv plpf., €LKv7a fem. partic. ; of 

cotica am like, resemble, 
€iKio (fCMC-, weaken) : yield, draw 

back. 

EiXccriov: Boeotian town, B 499. 

€iA.€Q) : restrain, keep back. See eiXw. 

eiki^XovOa [iX-jXvOa] : perf. of €pxo- 
pm come, 

iLKl-iroii, -o8os, dat. pi. eiXiTroSccro'i : 
(leg-twisting), crooked-gaited, trail- 
ing-footed. Epith. of cattle, in 
contrast with depcriTroScs imroi, 

elXjov : aor. of alpita take, seize, 

etXixtf, perf. partic. dXvp,€yos (/rctA.-) : 
wrap. 

dkta, aor. inf. IXcnu, aor. pass. inf. 

dXt^p-evajL (f€ikw) : crowd together, 
dpa, -aros (/:€<r-, ewvpn, vest is): 

garment, robe, 
tlpiv [lupihi] : 1st pi. of dpi am, 
dpAm. : perf. partic. of Ivvvpx clothn. 



34 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



diLtji if not, unless. 

€ifu, 2d sing. itra-C, 3d sing. i<rTi(y), 
1st pi. dfUy, 2d pi. core, 3d pi. 
cMrt(v) or hxn(y), Ist sing, subjv. 
ita, 3d sing, subjv. ^vfoi, opt. cwyv, 
3d pi. opt. clcv, 3d sing. imv. loroi, 
2d pi. imv. €<rT€, 3d pi. imv. iarw, 
inf. dvai or lfi(/^)ev(at), partic. 
loiv, cotxm, €ov, 1st sing. impf. 
1^ or la, 2d sing. impf. y<r$ay 3d 
sing. impf. ^v, yev, lev, or liyv^ 3d 
dual impf. rjirrrfv, 3d pi. impf. ijoav 
or louv, iterat. impf. I(ric€(v), fut. 
€a-{&)ofmi, 3d sing. fut. l(r(o-)cTai, 
co-crciTot, or larot : am, 
ov flfte? not live long, koI 

ia-a-ofjJvoun even for men about to 
be, for future generations, 

€LiUf 3d sing. cTcri, subjv. loficv, 
imv. tOi, inf. Ifiev or levai, partic. 
itov, lowm, lov, 3d sing. impf. rju 
or U(y), dual impf. tnyv, 3d pi. 
impf. Itrav, aor. eicraro : go, depart, 
come. (The connection decides 
whence and whither the action 
proceeds.) The pres. ind. is freq. 
used as fut. (as regularly in 
Attic), while the impf. ind. and 
the other nioods are used as aor. 

eiv : for cv in. 

eivarep€9 pi. : brothers* wives. 
cimros (cwea) : ninth. 
• eiv€Ka : see ev€Ka on account of. 
ciwxrt^vXXos (Iwxrts, <^vXXw) : leaf- 

shahing, leafy. 
cIo [ou] : gen. of 3d pers. pron. hiwr 

self 

clos, ciQ)? : while, until. (170$ is prob. 

the better form.) 
€t TTcp : if really, if indeed, 
tlirtro : impf. of t-n-ofjuca follow, 
ftirw or IciTTOv and elTras (aor. ind.), 

3d sing, subjv. dTrr^a-iv), partic. 

ciTToiv, ctirovao, iterat. aor. uireo"- 

K€v {fVTOi) : «auf, toZe?, spoke. (Ss 



ceTTdSv Mt«9 speaking, with these 

words. Cf. ffyrffu, dpm. 
ei TTOTC ; if ever, ct irorc <rxp(aro if 

ever they would stop, 
d irou, d ircos : perchance, in the 

hope that. 
Eiperpca: Eretria, in Euboea, B 537. 
dpTjwf: peace, irr dp^qviji in time 

of peace. 
ctpiov: wool. 

elpo-KOfjuK : wool-carder, T 387. 

dpo/wjL, subjv. ipetofjuev, impf. cpe- 
OKTo: (»ib, inquire about. Cf. dpia. 

dpo-iroKO^ : woolly-fleeced, woolly. 

dpyarajL pres. mid., €lpva-atur$(U aor. 
mid. : of ipvopai guard. 

dpvaraL : perf . pass, of ipwa draw up. 

[dpta] fut. ipem, perf. pass, dprpxa 
(pep-, verbum): say, tell, an' 
nounce. Cf ffrrffu, dirov. 

dpio, perf. pass, partic. hpfievai: 
Join, unite well. 

ds, €s: adv. and prep, with ace, 
into, to, untU. It sometimes seems 
to be followed by a gen., because 
of an ellipsis, e.g. is 'Aft/voii^s to 
Athena* s temple, is yaXom to the 
homes of her husband* s sisters. It 
rarely follows its noun. 

els, fua, €v, gen. evos, /xias, ews: one. 
Cf ros. 

etcra : seated, aor. of e^ofuu sit. 
do-aiTo seemed, danro took the form 

of: aor. of eiSo). 
els-am-Palvd), aor. eiaavej^Tcmv : go 

up into, 
dcraro : aor. of dpi go. 
dfT-ipyppxix, fut. eo-eXetxro/xoi, aor. 

ewnyXv^ov or eto^X^ov, aor. imv. 

^o-eX^e : come in, enter, 
da-^TojL : fut. of o7&x ibnou;. 
e'foT; (/raros) : c^wo/, well-balanced, 

shapely (of . ships) ; /air (of a 

feast where each has a portion 

suited to his rank), vavrwr iunf 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OP THE ILIAD. 



35 



eqtiol on every side, prob. round, 

of a shield (cUnrts). 
dtT-ijXOw or €txrq\v&cv : aor. of cio-cp- 

;(o/xat comtf tn. 
cto-ico) (^f€furK<a, fuc-^: think (him) 

like, 

CIS o K€(v): wnri?. (For cis roOro 

ds-opoAo, pres. pai-tic. daropotav, fut. 

ifTonffOfiajL : looking at, looking on. 
eurio (cis) : adv. within, into, Freq. 
with an acc. (* limit of motion *), 
as "IXuw cttro) /o Troy, oartov atrw 
tn /o the bone, "A'iSo^ da-ia (sc, 
Sofwy} into the home of Hades, 
ct rc . • . ct re : whether , . , or, 
cTxov : impf . of ix<o have, hold, 
(jua, aSxn : pres. ind. of cooi allow, 
u(o$€ : perf. of HOta am wont, 
eicDs : for clbs until, 
i>^f (before vowels) : adv. and 
prep, with gen., out, forth, from. 
iK T<HO from that time, ov since, 
i<f>Lkrfi€v €K Atos received the love 
of Zeus, were loved by Zeus, 1$ 
avrvyos (bound) from the rim, i.e. 
to the rim. In composition 
denotes separation or completion 
(utterly), 

*EKdPri ' Hecaba^ Hecuba, wife of 
king Priam of Troy, Z 251 ft, 

itca-epyo^ (j:€Kas,f€pyov): far-worker. 
Epithet of Apollo. Cf. CKiyjSoXos, 
kKaryiPtKlrrfi, €KaTi^p6\oi, licaros. 

iKo-dev (cKcis) : from afar, afar, 

iKaXiatraTO : aor. of xoXeo) call. 

ixofwy : aor. of #cafivo> become weary. 

€Kws (f^Kor) : adv. far, with gen. 

jfxaoTos 3 (/rcK-) : each. It is freq. 
added in appos. with the subj. of 
the principal verb, — in the sing, 
when the individual is to be 
made prominent, in the pi. when 
separate divisions or squads are 
in mind. 



€KdT€p$€y: adv. with gen., on either 
side. 

€#caTi/-)8cA.en^, -ao ( A 75) and tKarrj' 
P6Xos (/rcKas, pdXXw) : far-darter, 
far-shooter. Epithet of Apollo as 
(the sun-god) the god of the 
bow. 

CKaroy-;(apos (x^p) '• hundred-armed. 
Epithet of Briareos, A 402. 

iKarofi'^Tf (jSous) : hecatomb; strictly ^ 
a sacrifice of a hundred cattle, but 
the poet is not exact as to num- 
ber or class of the victims, hence 
sacrifice. 

eKarofjirPouK (jSous): worth a hun- 
dred cattle. 

cjcard/x-TroAis : having a hundred 
cities, hundred-citied, of Crete, 
B649. 

tKarw: indeclin. one hundred, 
l#caro9 (ftKos) : short form of cica- 

TrjPeXerrj^ far-darter. 
€K-Patvu} : go forth, come forth. 
€K-PaXKii}, aor. iK^aXe: cast out, 

throw out. 
€K-ylyvo/Jim, aor. c^cyeiwro, perf. 

inf. €Ky€ydfJL£y, perf. partic. fem. 

€Ky€yavia : am born from, perf. 

am sprung from. 
cK-yow: descendant, offspring. 
iK-drqXjOi (j8irj\ov) : conspicuous, E 2. 
tK-^C&iOfjuL, aor. imv. IkSotc : give up. 

V 459. 
cK-8ua) ; put off, doff, 
exc&urcrf: &OT,oi(<r)K€BaiyyvfU shatter. 
IkiKoxTTO : plpf • of Kolvvfjuu excel. 
CKcicXcro : aor. of KtXofjuu call, order. 
cVckXito : plpf. of kAiVq) lean, rest. 
ItcqoL : aor. of KoCoi bum. 
€icq-p6Sl-q (j:€Kds, jSoXXo)) : distant 

shots, 

€Kifj-p6koi: far-shooter, Seecicaepyos* 
€KrfXoi (f€K-) : quiet, peaceful, wn- 

disturbed. 
iK-KoBalptu : clean out, B 153. 



36 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



€K-KajO-opau>, aor. partic. €Kicari8d>v : 

look (out) down from, 
Ix-iau-ScKa-Soipos : sixteen hand- 

breadths in length, A 109. 
iK-KaT-iSwv : aor. of iKKoBopdta, 
CK-icXcirra), aor. c^ckXc^cv: steal atoay, 
€K'Kv\Lv^f aor. pass. i$€KvXuTOrf: 

roll out. 

€K'XavOay<i}j aor. trans. IttXiXaBw, 
perf. iKkeXaBiar&ai: mid. forget; 
trans, cause to forget. 

€kXvov : impf . of icXuu) Aear, give ear. 

€K-fiv]^dM, aor. partic. iKfivJ^'qau^ : 
suck out (poisoned blood), A 218. 

cK-iwTcco, aor. partic. iKvofTTrffTavri. 
(vooTos) : return from. 

iKoXjfa : iinpf . of koXoniq) brawl. 

tKOfuaa-e : aor. of KOfu^ut carry off. 

liorayXos: terrible. Sup. iiarayXo- 
raroc. Adv. cmrayXciDS or iiarayXa 
terribly, mightily. 

iK-mL<f)^a-io : {shine forth), am 
prominent, 

iKriripBfih fut. iKTrifHTOvat, aor. subjv. 
tKwifHrwcn, aor. i^ejrpdBofuv: sack 
utterly, destroy, ra voXliuv i^tirpar 
6ofjL€v what we sacked out of the 
cities, i.e, took from the cities. 

cK-n-iirro), aor. licTrecre : fall from. 

€#c-7rp€injs, -cos (irp€ir<o) > distin- 
guished, 

iKpaJuavtvi impf. of Kpajuuvia fulfil. 
iK-a-aoti}, aor. i^ea-dMoorty: save, rescue. 
eK-a-ewo, aor. pass. i^eavOrj: send 

forth ; pass, rush fjrth. 
€K-airdti), aor. l^ioTraxTf. : draw forth. 
cKTo, iKrav€ : aor. of KreCvtn kill. 
eK-rdfjivw, aor. i$€rafjjov : cut out, cut, 

hew out, 

iK-rikiia (rcXos): accomplish, per- 
form. 

'Eicropcos : of Hector, Hectares, 
•EicTO/atSiys : »on of Hector, Z 401. 
€#cT05 (cf) : sixth. 
tKTOi (ck) : adv. outside. 



"EKTiop, -opos : Hector, the mightiest 
and dearest-beloved of Priam's 
fifty sons, O 495 S. In Z is 
an account of an affectionate 
meeting of Hector and his wife 
Andromache ; in H, Hector fights 
in single combat with Telamo- 
nian Ajax; he breaks his way 
through the gates of the Greek 
camp, M 445 fE. ; he is grievously 
wounded by Ajax, H 402 E., but 
Apollo restores his strength, and 
he returns to the conflict, 0246 ff., 
and advances to the very ships 
of the Achaeans, H 114 £E. ; he 
slays Patroclus, the friend of 
Achilles, H 818 ft. ; he is himself 
slain by Achilles, X 330. The 
Twenty-fourth Book of the Iliad 
teUs the story of Priam's visit 
to the Achaean camp to ransom 
Hector's body. The last verse 
of the Iliad is oSs at y o/A^tCTroi' 
ra<^oi/ ^Eicropos UnroSdfwio. He 
is called Kopv&oMXos {with waving 
plume), Poirjv ayajQoq (good at the 
war-cry, valiant), fuyd$vfio^(great- 
hearted), ^cuSt/ios (glorious), ay 
Spo<l>6vo^ (man-slaying). 

itcvpos, (f €K-) : husband*s father. 

iKrifKuvio, aor. pass. i(€<fMavOrf : show 
forth; pass, appear. 

€K-ff>epfa: carry forth, bear out of 

€#c-<^vy(tf, aor. Ix^vyc : escape, 

cV^co) : pour out. 

€K(j!)v, -ovtos (f€K-) I willing, of (his) 

own will. 
iXaav: pres. inf. of eXcuo drive. 
2Xa)8c : aor. of Xafipdvu) take, seize, 
iXdjC^To : impf. of XaCopM take, 
l\atov: olive oil. 
iXdrrf: pine-tree. 
iXarjp, -^pos (cXaw) : driver, 
"EAaros : Trojan ally, slain by Agar 

memnon, Z 33. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



87 



iXawtn or cAoco, pres. inf. iXaav, aor*. 

IAao-(o')e(v) or ^Aacrc, iterat. aor. 

iXda-cuTKev, plpf . vjXijXaTO or cXiy- 

Aaro : drivey strike. KoXamv €Aal^ 

Via carry on a brawl, 
cAa^os: deer. 
c Aa<^pos 3 : light. 
iXj^ofjm : desire, long for, 
cAccupQ) (eA.€os) : 
eXey9(iJs, -cos : shameful. 
€Xcy;(iaT05 : ?no«< disgraced. 
IXeyxos, -C09: shame, pi. (shameful 

things), caitiffs. 
cXecivds (lAcos) : pitiable. 
cXeeoi, aor. iXtrfo-e (eAcos) : 

eAcAtfo), aor. cAeAi^ev, aor. pass. 
cAcAi3(ft^v or cAcAt^^v : (/urn), 
act. shake; mid. cot7; pass, /urn 
a&ou/, ra%. 

cAc( v) [cIAc] : aor. of at/ocoi toib«, ^/ay. 

*E\€tnfj: Helen, daughter of Zeus, 
sister of Castor and Polydeuces, 
wife of Menelaus, mother of H^er- 
mioue. Famed for her beauty. 
Carried off by Paris, son of Priam, 
to Troy, and thus the occasion of 
the Trojan war. After the cap- 
ture of Ilios she returned to 
Sparta with Menelaus. V 121 fF., 
Z 323 ft,, i 121 ff. 

nSAcvos : (1) son of Priam ; a seer, 
Z 76. (2) A Greek, E 707. 

cXeoOpenros (cAos, r/oct^o)) : marsh- 
nourished, grown on moist land, 
B776. 

lAc<T^e, cAenTV : aor. of olpeco take, 
iXeiOtpo^i free, ikevOepov ^fjuip 

day of freedom, freedom, Kfnpijp 

cAcvtfcpos bowl of freedom, i.e. in 

celebration of freedom. 
{ktvaofjuu : tut. of ipxpfuu come. 
cAc^as, -avro9 (elephant) : ivory. 
"EAc^TFcop, -opoii leader of Abantes, 

B 540. A 463. 



/Ac^cv : aor. of Acttoi strip off, A 236. 

'EAecov, -mfosi Boeotian town, B 500. 

tXyXaro : plpf. of iXavim drive. 

iXBi imv., cA^av or lXdifuv(ai) 
inf., HX&gm subjv., lA^ opt., 
€XB6v partic. : aor. of €p^i»ai 
come. 

*EAi#c&ciiif, -01^: son of Antenor, 
and son-in-law of Priam, V 123. 

"EAoci; : principal town in the dis* 
trict on the north coast of Pelopon- 
nesus. Poseidon received special 
honor there. B 575. 

eh,KwnSj -tSos and iXiK-wl^, -tmros 
(pthit Mj/) : quick-eyed, bright-^ 
eyed. 

lAcTTov: aor. of AciTra) leave. 
iXisrario (fcAi^) : curl. 
SAkos, -€09 : wound, sore. 
cAKC(rt-ir«rAo5 : with tilling robe, 

Epith. of Trojan matrons. 
iXKrjOfjm (eXjcta) : dragging, seizure. 
IAko) : draw, drag. 
2AAaj3e [2Aa)8£] : aor. of XanPdvvi 

take, 

'EAAas, -aSos: the country under 
the rule of Peleus, in Thessaly, 
B 683. Thence the name was 
extended to all Greece. 

^EAAiyvcs : Hellenes, the inhabitants 
of Hellas, B 684. 

'EAAiya-TTOKTos: (seaofHelle),the Hel- 
lespont, B 845. The Homeric use 
includes the neighboring waters. 

cAAtWcro : impf . of Aurcro/iot. 

lAxH, lAcW [clAw], €X6vT€^, ZXjovto 

[eiXorro] : aor. of alpiio take, seize, 
slay. 

^ElAos, -cos: (1) Lacedaemonian 
town, B 584. (2) Town near 
Elis, B 594. 

2Aos, -cos (f cA-) : marsh, low-land. 

IXiropai (pfkir-) : hope. 

iXata: aor. inf. of cZAo) crowd i» 
gether. 



38 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



IXiop and iXiopuw (f cA.-, IXcZv) : booty, 
prey. 

i/nrPaivtOf perf. partic. c/i^c^Soomi, 

plpf. ifipifiauti^: come irUOy em* 

bark; perf. stand in. 
€fi'Pd\Xfo, aor. 2/i^8aXc: (Aroto tn, 

put into. 
ifi'PamXievia: rule among. 
ifU aoc., {fijWeVf ifuio gen. : of iyoi J. 
I/Mtm?: aor. of fUtm await. 
ifiifUKTO : plpf. of fjLuryw mix. 
Ifuvai [dvai] : inf. of d/u am, 
ifuev : gen. of cya> /. 
ifuyqv, i/u^fiey lifu^fOtftrav'], and 

ifux!^ : aor. pass, of fju(ry<i} unite, 

mix. 

ifjLfmwiot^ : adv. quickly, at once, 
ifjLfUfuuoi, -Via : eager , impetuously. 
ififuvojL [elm] : inf. of dfu am. 
Ififijopa: perf. of fuCpopm receive 

as my portion. 
€/iviaovro : impf . of ^ivaopai am mind- 

ifwq 3: my. Strengthened by the 
gen. of avrds in c/aov avrov xXtoq, 
since ifioy is eqoiv. to c/aov. 

€iirirdxr<Tia, impf. Ivemura-t : (sprinkle 
in), weave in, V 126. 

tlMrTrt&Oi". firm, unshaken. 

j^«rr'W: adv. immovable. 

ifMr%^ . . <ior. of ifiTrarrto fall in. 

ifi-^€<f>wia : closely clinging to, perf. 
of €fi<l>wo grow into. 

cft-iTT? : in spite of all, never-the-less. 

IfiirXrp^ : local adv. next. 

€fjir<l>wa, perf. partic c/xTre^wZa: grow 
into ; perf. cling closely to. 

€v, ely, or m: adv. and prep., in, 
therein, among. <Ap€a-iv Iv #copv^$ 
on the mountain summits, iv 6<^AiX- 
fJUKaty opojirOai see before (my) 
eyes, mrpi iv X^P^^ P^^ 
her father's arms, cv with the 
dat. is freq. used with verbs of 
motion, because of the state of 



' rest that follows the motion ; as 
Koanreatjv Ai^/u^ 1 fell down on 
Lemnos. ^ sometimes seems to be 
construed with a gen. because of 
an ellipsis, as ly d^veun) varpos 
(sc. Scd/uan) in the house of my 
wealthy father. Cf. cJs. 

hfa: acc. masc. of eU one. 

hmpfo, aor. IvrjpaTO (ivapa) : slay. 

iv-atatfuts (olaa) : favoroMe, reason- 
able, the contrary of vafiaunau 

€y-(uatfMJOv : adv. at fitting time. 

ciMiAxyKios: like, resembling. 

ciMirribs 3 : opposite, to meet. 

hMtvrlav : adv. against, to meet. 

bofia pi. : spoils, armor taken from 
a slain foe. 

IvapCCm (hapa) : strip of (his) armor, 
slay. 

hMipt$/uo9 (aptOftos) : counted, of 

account. 
cmroc (eyyea) I ninth. 
Iv&ica: indeclin. e/«t;en. 
hSacd-Trrfxys, -v : eleven cubits long, 
iyiiiui: adv./r<w» left to right, 
iv^io, aor. cvc&^cre : bind in, entangle. 
hfSoSey, ivSo^ €v8oy : adv. within. 
iv-SSnno and ck-Suo)^ aor. partic iv 

Sura : (slip into), put on. 
iveiKtan^ : aor. of vciicea) upbraid, 

rebuke. 

iveiKio : aor. subjv. of <^epa> bear, 
fy-upx, 1st pi. €V€i.fJL€v, opt. iyeaj, 

impf. ev^and Ivcooy (dfu) : am 

within. 

cvcKo, €y€K€v, OT cfvcica : prep, with 
gen., on account of, for the sake 
of because of. 

ivetrjKovra: indeclin. ninety. 

iv-hraxTa-evi impf. of ifiirauira-u} weave 
in. 

iyipTcpois : lower, beneath, 
h^auv : impf. of cvti/u am within. 
"EvcTot pi. : Veneti, in Paphlago- 
nia, B 852. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



89 



iy-Tfty: impf. of ivtifu am within. 

ivrjparo : aor. of tyalpia sidy. 

hSa : there, here, where, then, hSa 

Ksu. hSa in this direction and in 

that. 

€v$d-S€: thither, there. 

ivSey: thence, from thcU source. 

h^€o : aor. of ivriOrffu place in. 

cvt : see cv in. The accent is drawn 
back upon the first syllable when 
the prep, follows its noun. 

m : dat. of cIs one. 

cviavro? : year. Cf. Ito?. 

*EmfV€'s : a Thessalian tribe, B 749. 

mm^ (cviTTTO)) : rebuke, blame. 

tviTTTta, aor. Tpdmare : rebuke, re- 
proach. 

: aor. of weirta tell, say. 

"EvMrm; : Arcadian town, B 606. 

Ivi'ca: indeclin. nine. 

€w€a-Pou>9 (fiovi) : worth nine cattle. 

€W€ar)^iXoi : nine thousand. 

hvarm, aor. ivunre : tell, say. 

€vy€<rCrj {tvCrjfU.) : suggestion, advice. 

cn^/xap : adv. for nine days. 

"^EvyofjuK : a Mysian seer, B 858. 

hnnifu, aor. co-crc, perf. partic. pass. 
dyufvoL, plpf . €0*0*0 (f€vwfu, fta-, 
V e s t i s ) : clothe, put on. ra tlfU- 
vo£ clad in which, Xaxvov €0*o-o 
Tiova put on a stone tunic, i.e. be 
stoned. 

Mvfcre : aor. of vocoi perceive, 
homlj: outcry. 

iy^vvfu, aor. act. Mtpa-ev, aor. mid. 

iySipro : arouse among ; mid. arise 

among. 
€iMTrpi4^lwx : turn within. 
hrr€a, dat. li^eoxpL: weapons, armor, 
kv^wm, perf. mid. evrerarai : stretch 

within, string. 
€iMrt$rffu, aor. Iv^co : place in, set in. 
€VTo : aor. of tri/u send, ca^t. 
CKTos, hfTOKT&^iy) (cv) : adv. unthin, 

with gen. 



h^fHyjraXClofjm : turn around often. 

ivrwo : tnake ready. 

*£i/vaXto« (*Ewa>) : strictly an epith. 
of Ares, god of war ; but used as 
his name, esp. in the verse-close 
*Evva\ua avBp€iff>6vrg , where cp 
and d are pronounced together, 
by * synizesis.' 

ev-vTTviovi adv. in (my) sleep. 

"Evuo): Enyo, Be 11 on a, goddess of 
war, companion of Ares, E 333, 
592. 

ivtafia : inipf . of viOfWM move. 
hMinrg (cS^) : adv. openly. 
cv-capo'cv, hmprro'. aor. of IvopwfU 

arouse in; mid. arise in. 
i$: see €k out of 
If (f€$) : indeclin. six. 
i^yy^XX<a, aor. cfi/yyctXcv: bring 

news out, tell a secret. 
cf-ayo), aor. cfiyyayc : lead forth. 
•Ef<£&os : a Lapith, A 264. 
i$Hianjfu : take away, with two aces. 
€$-aLp€TO^ (aipiio) : selected. 
€$<ap€(a, aor. cfeA-cro or c^cXcto: 

take out of, take from. 
i^-oKiopm, aor. opt. efaiceoato, 

(5#cos) : cure, appease. 
i^-aXaTrdiio, aor. i$aXaLiraj$€ : sack^ 

utterly destroy. 
i^-dWopm : leap forth. - • 

i^-avCvrf^ [cftu*^!^?] : adv. suddenly. 
i$-diro-^opm : drive away out of, 

E 763. 

i^-air-oXXvpj., aor. opt. cf aTroXomro : 

mid. perish utterly from. 
€$-ap7rai^io, aor.cfiy/jTraf c: snatch away, 
i^-apx^ : begin, propose first. 
i$-avSaM : speak out. 
^f-avTis : again, anew. 
cfctiys [€^75] • *^ order, one after the 

other. 

^f-ctXcTo : aor. of i^ptta take out of. 
€$-€ifU, inf. l^ip.pj£vax (dpi) : am 
sprung from, am the son of. 



r 



40 VOCABULi 

iieCvurau : aor. of ^civti^oi receive as 
guest, 

i(-€ipofmL : question, ask. 

[c^i/Ktf] fut. i(€fi€<a : speak outy 

speak plainly. 
i$-€Ka$ajLpwi impf. of iKKoBaip^ 

clean out. 
li-€KKoff€v: aor. of iKKkiirrvt steal 

away. 

i^'CKvXur^ : aor. pass, of ckkvAiVSo) 
roll out. 

ef-cXao), aor. c^eAoo-c : drive out of, 

drive away. 
i$-€k€ro : aor. of l^anpiia take away. 
i$U\Kia : draw otU. 
€$€fiev: fut. inf. of hold, keep, 

protect. 

€$4fjLfijEyai : inf. of i$€ifu am the son of. 

c^-CFopci^oi, €{cvapi^c(v) (evapa) : de- 
spoil, strip of armor, slay. 

€$<irpaBopjEy : aor. of iicirepBia sack. 

i$-€p€ii} : fut. of l^upvi speak out. 

i$-€pv<a, aor. l^ipvat : draw out. 

i(€(r€ : aor. of f coi hew, cut. 

€$'€<nrtur€ : aor. of €K<nrdio draw forth. 

i$-€<rv$rj : aor. pass, as mid. of ck- 
atwa rush forth. 

l^-irapw. aor. of iKTofww cut out, 
hew. 

i$-€<f>aavOrf : appeared, aor. pi^ss. of 

iKffxuvtii show forth. 
€^-Yyay€ • aor. of cfayo) lead forth. 
i$^^YY€iX.€: aor. of c^ayyeXXo) tell 

the secret. 
i$-rry€opjajL: lead forth, B 806. 
cf-iyKovra (If) : indeclin. sixty, 
l^-rjpirait : aor. of cfd/nra^o) snatch 

away. 

^^"VPX^ : impf. of i^apx^ begin. 

i(-oi\ofmL : am gone. 

i$-oyofjuuvio, aor. subjv. cfoi^fii/viys : 
call by name, name. 

ii-o^i$€ : behind, in the rear. 

i$-ox^ (cfcxw) : prominent, pre- 
eminent, chief €$o)(a adv. chiefly. 



Y TO THE 

li-'vir'ay-tan^px, aor. i^wrnvwrrf : 
rose {da^wrq), out of the back 
(^f), under (vwo) the blow. 

lo [ov] : gen. of 3d pers. pron., him, 
her. 

iouca, fem. partic. cucvto, plpf. ctp- 

K€iv, plpf** dual, cucrrpf {fifouca, 

fiKr) : perf. as pres., am like, 

resemble ; impers. it is fitting, 

suitable. 
i6yT€q : partic. of ci/u am. 
iopya : perf. of Ip&o do, work. 
cos (ov) 3: possessive pron., own, 

his, her. 
cirayctpoi: collect. 
CTT^yt^cD : dash upon. 
CTT^vcco, aor. partic. iinuvqmivTes 

(oTvos) : praise, commend, 
iir-ato'a'io, aor. inf. iTratiai: rush 

upon, hasten to. 
iir-aiTUK : blameworthy, to blame, 
iir-ajcowa, aor. iTraxovauv: hear. 
hrHLpjuPopai, aor. subjv. cva/m^o- 

/xev: act. exchange; mid. change. 

viKrf ImpjUpcrajL SvSpa^ victory 

conies now to one, now to another, 
iir-apirvfo, aqr. imv. lirdpMvw : bring 

aid to, protect, defend. 
tTMLV-iarrffU, 2d aor. iiraviarrja'av : 

aor. rose thereupon. 
i'tiHiir€iX.€ia, aor.cinp-ctXiyorc: threaten, 
lir-apKim, aor. lirqpK€<r€\ (avail), 

ward o^,.with acc. and dat. of 

interest. 

iir-dpx^f partic. eirap^dfuvoL : 
begin. tn!ipTf(rav Imipiafuvoi equiy. 
to ijp^avTo iinv€fjuovT€i began dis- 
tributing. 

iir-axravT€poi (oo-aov) 3 : in thick 
succession, one soon ufter the other. 

iir-avpCa-Kw, fut. inf. cvavpi^cadou, 
aor. subjv. ItravpuJvrajL: enjoy, reap 
the fruits of Freq. ironical. 

iir-eyvaful/ey : aor. of IgrtyrafivTM 
bend, bring over. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OP THE ILIAD. 



iir-€^pafie : aor. of iirirpixia run upon, 
lir^€<Ta-i(y) : dat. pi. of c-jtos word. 
hr-fBiqKt : aor. of imrCBiqia place upon, 
Iviii temporal and causal conj., 

when^ since, for. It generally 

stands at the head of its clause, 

but sometimes follows one or 

more words, as Z 474. 
CTTCtyo) : hurry, urge ; mid. hasten, in 

haste, eagerly, 
CTTcl 8iy : since once, since, when, 
lirti ^ : since in truth; always causal. 
cTT-etfU, opt. CTTcny, impf. iiry€¥ (^eifu): 

am upon, am over, 
€ir-€i.fjLi, 3d sing, hr^uriv, partic. ctti- 

ovra (cifu) : come on ; pres. ind. 

shall come on. 
"Eirctot: Epeans, early inhabitants 

of northern Elis, B 619. 
iireipav : aor. of Trccpco pierce, spit. 
circiparo impf., iweipi^a-avTO aor. : of 

irtipojofJim try, attempt, 
|jr-€icrtv: 3d sing, of cTrei/uu come 

upon. 

€w-£iTa: adv. then, afier that, next, 
hereafter. Freq. in apod., giving 
it independence and prominence. 

lir-tKBuiv', aor. pai*tic. of iirip^yjajL 
come on. 

h^pL-qvoTO : aor. of iTrifimvofJuu rave 
for, fall madly in love with. 

iir-ifiviav : aor. of iirifivl^io mutter 
over. 

iir-eiM^voSt : 3d sing, of an old perf ., 

as (pres. or) impf. grew on it. 
€w-€oiK€: impers. it is fitting. 
iir'€'n'€tOero : impf. of ItnirtiBoiwA 

obey, yield obedience. 
hriirtBpjtv [cTrcTroti^ct/icv] : trusted, 

plpf . of iruBia persuade. 
iw-€p€i^, aor. hripeurt : (rest upon), 

push. 

iiripija-cv: aor. of TrepoAopass through. 
€ir-€ppiMravTO : aor. of impptoopxii 
roll down at (the nod). 



iir^ipXOfWi, aor. partic. iireXSwy: 

come on, advance, attack. 
iTrea-'PoXas (^iros, pdXXw): (koord- 

bandying), babbling, blatant. 
eTreo-c : aor. of riirrta fall. 
lir-laravpjojL : I'ush upon, "perf, of ivur- 

o-evQ) urge upon, 
€ir-€(TT€vaxovTo : impf. of hruTr€vd\ia 

groan at, 

iir-eirral/avTo : aor. of cttiotc^o) 
crown, 

iir-ireiXa^ : aor. of CTrireWo) enjoin, 
€Tr-€v<lnffi€iiii, aor. hrevijyqfiiym^ : 

(speak well at), approve, Cf, hr- 

aivim, CTTCu^/xi^av is equiv. 

to CKcXevaav iircvtfi-qpuclvvTt^ bade 

with pioxis reverence, 
iir-evxppjojL, aor. partic. €7rev|aficvos : 

pray, boast over, exult, 
iireffivov, inf. ir€<f>y€p.€v (^vos, <^€v^): 

aor. slew. ir€if>avTajL is perf. pass. 
iTr«l>paxraTO'. aor. of iiriKfipdiopm 

notice, think of. 
CTT^cv : impf. of Ittci/u am upon, 
iirqv : cttcI av when, with subjv. 
CTT-j/vcov : impf. of CTraiveo) commend, 

approve. 
hrrf$€ : aor. of m^ywpx build. 
i7r^7pr€iX.r}cr€ : aor. of CTraTreiXcai 

threaten. 

^TT-iJ/jKccrc : aor. of CTra/ofceo) ward off. 

iirl'. adv. and prep, upon, on, to, 
over, at, against, afier; with dat., 
ace, and gen. hrl KV€<f)as rjXOe 
darkness came on, iirl oivov cXet^Se 
poured a libation of wine over (the 
offering), €7rt pvOov crcAXcv laid 
upon him his command, \tip cirt 
KopTTia arm at the wrist, iir avr<5 
yiXxuraav laughed (over) at him, 
iwl ')(6avC upon the earth, upon the 
ground, hri irvpyt^ on the tower, 
iirl TrvXyaiv by (at) the gate, 68^ 
iiri on the road, by the wayside, 
UdvBta hn on the banks of the 



42 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



XanthuSy irrl vtjwriv at (near) the 
ships, iroifji^ €Tr oiccrcriv shepherd 
keeping watch over his sheep, tfci- 
Mtt M YJwamv place upon the 
hneesy Itr dAAi/Xouriv conrcs going 
upon (against) each other, ^kc S 
iw *Apy€ioun sent against the 
A r gives, ^kOe £^ iirl K/n^co-o-t 
came to the Cretans, iirl ydova to 
the ground, i^etcvXiaOrf iirl (rrofjui 
was rolled out upon his face, v&top 
iirl x^H^^ Ix^^fov poured water 
over the hands, iirl ^(o/iiov aywv 
leading to the altar, iwl irvpyw 
lowrav coming to the tower, Kar- 
ayciv iirl v$a9 lead back (down) to 
the camp (ships), iwl arCxas ^co- 
fAoi lead into ranks, so as to form 
ranks, iwl vtora OakaxTOTj^ over the 
hack of the sea, fjuuvar hrl xpww 
wait for a while, iir wfjuav on the 
shoulders, iirl xBovo^ on the ground, 
KoBi^er iirl Opovov sat upon a 
throne, v§a iir ygirupoijo ipwraray 
drew the ship upon the shore, iir 
dprfyri^ in time of peace, iirl irpo- 
ripioy SaSpwrtav in the time of for- 
mer generations, iirC draws its 
accent back upon the 1st syllable 
when it follows its noun, unless 
either some word intervenes, or 
the final vowel of the prep, is 
elided. 

cirt : equiv. to lircori " is thine." 
iir-iax<a : shout (iirC in the fight). 
iri'Piuvia, aor. iinv. imPiiato, aor. 

opt. imPaCrp^, aor. partic. iirifias : 

go upon, mount. 
iiri-PaXXia: mid. lay hands upon, 

strive for. 
im-PaxTKin (Palvio) : bring to (upon). 

KOKiov iiriPcurK€pjEv bring into(evils) 

misfortune. 
iiri-P'qa'eo imv., iiriPrfO-OfUvoy partic. : 

aor. of iirifiaCvw mount. 



lin-PfMia, aor. subjv. iiriPfia^t 

press heavily, fall heavily, of rain. 
iiri-yLyvofJuu : come on, come, Z 148. 
iiriryvdp.irT<a, aor. iiriyvafuf/ey : bend^ 

win over to one's side. 
iiri-ypdffHo, aor. iireypoAl/e: scratch. 
"E^iSavpos : town in Argolis on the 

Saronic gulf, B 561. 
irri-^ita: adv. ace, on the right, 

toward the right. Cf. cvSc^ca. 
imSevTi^, -€s : in want, lacking, 
im-ievofjuu : am in want, am inferior, 

with gen. 
imrSiviw, aor. iiri&vtjaas : swing, 

whirl, 

iwiSpopjois (ipaLfjL£iv) : approachable, 

to be scaled. 
€?ri-€iKeXos : like. 
€?ri-€iin/9, -€s : fitting, suitable, 
€irt-€ticro9 (uK<o) i-^elding. 
im-iXiropai: hope (for), 
iiri'fwvpx, perf. partic. pass, cirict- 

puEvoi : clothe ; pass, clad in, with 

acc. 

hri^poL : see ^pa. 

iin-Bapavvvi : cheer, encourage. 

im-Oeivai aor. inf., iirt&qa-ei int. : of 
iiriTidrjpj. lay upon,put to (i.e. close). 

iirWovTo : obeyed, aor. of iruBta per- 
suade. 

iiri-OpwFKiai leap upon, leap forward. 
im-Kupm, fut. iiriKeCaopai : lie upon, 

rest upon. 
iirirK€vOi»>, fut. iiruceva-ta: cover up, 

conceal, hide ; with neg. 
im-KLSvapm : mid. spread over. 
im-Kovpita, fut. iirucovprja-ia : helpf 

serve as ally* 
iirt-Kovpo^ : helper, ally. £sp. in pL 

of the allies of the Trojans. 
iiri'Kpauuvio, aor. imv. iiriKpvfqvcv'. 

fulfil, accomplish, grant. 
iin'X£v(ra-ii} : see before me, see, T 12. 
iiri'pmvopm, aor. iir€p.T^vaTo : rave 

for, fcdl madly in love with. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



43 



im-fuilofuu, fut. CTTi/uuurcrcTat: (foel), 

examine or probe a wound, strike 

(iTTirovs fiaoTtyi). 
hn'fiaSdta, aor. partic. cirifiadi/aas : 

5mt/tf (at). 
iin-/i€fiil>o/uai blame, with genitive 

of cause. 

Int-fieviOf aor. imv. iirCfUivoy: wait, 
await. 

lnt-fU(r/io : mingle. 03^ iirifMryofie- 
viav sc. Tpcjw joined battle again 
with the Achaeans. 

etn-fivl^<o, aor. iiri/iviav : mutter at. 

iir-iavra : partic. of cTra/u come on. 

im-opKov: false oath. 

ifn-^eiOofjuu : am obedient, render 
obedience. 

hriririTOfua, aor. inf. hnirrifrBax : 
fly forward (upon), of an arrow. 

CTTMrXcoi and €iri7rXa>a>, aor. par- 
tic. liriTrXoKras and iTriTrXio^: sail 
over. 

m-^nyeCia: breathe (blow) upon. 
hnrirpo-vqyjL, aor. inf. iTnwpoifjuev : 

send forth against. 
iin-iroiXiofmi : come up to the ranks, 

in order to review them. 
iin-pptio : flow over. 
im-ppo$(K : helper, only as fem. 
iirirppiaopjajL, aor. eir^ppwravro*. roll 

down at (the nod). 
im-airff : aor. of ct^cTro) meet, 
hnraa-eita : shake at, brandish at. 
lnt-<ra'€vio, plpf . €W€(ravTo, perf . cttcct- 

ovnu : mid. hasten on, rush upon. 
iirL-a-a-ityrpov : tire of a wheel. 
i'jrurTOfuu : am skilled, understand, 
hn-urcva'xppm : groan meanwhile, 

A 154. 

linr<rri<fna, aor. ^ireaTci^aKro : crown, 

flll to the brim. 
imrfrTpeifno, aor. partic. cTrurr/oc^s : 

^um about. 
^EirLaTpoifxs : (1) Phocian leader, 

B 517. (2) Slain by Achilles at 



the sack of Lymessus, B 692. 
(3) Leader of Trojan allies, B 856. 

m-o-^vpca pi. (a-^vpov) : the buckles 
or hooks by which the greaves 
were fastened at the <incle. (Or, 
perhaps better, greave-like protec- 
tions for the ancle, ancle-guards.) 

itrirToppoOo^ : helper, defence. 

CTTirTcXXo), aor. inf. iwmiXai : enjoin 
upon, command. 

iin-r€Tpa'nrai, pi. hrLTerpdifxiTai : 
perf. pass, of mrphna entrust, 
commit. 

hnrrfiis: adv. sufficiently, as are 
needed. 

im-TiBrjpi, fut. emBrfO-tiL, aor. liriBrjKt, 

aor. inf. CTrt^eivoi : place upon, set 

upon, put to (i.e. close). 
iin-To(aiopm : bend the bow at, shoot 

at, with dat., T 79. 
cirt-TpCTTO), perf. pass. ImTerpairrax, 

perf. pass. pi. hrvrerpaffMiTax [cttitc- 

Tpap.pj€voi. cortV]: commit, entrust to. 
i7n-Tp€)(ia, aor. €iriipapji(v) : run up, 

run upon, 
hn-rpoxa-^ntp^ (Tp€x<i>) : trippingly, 

fluently. 

Ijn-ffiipia, fut. CTTOurct: bear upon. 

X€tpa<i hroCaei shall lay hands on. 
€7ri-<^XcyQ> : bum, consume. 
m-<if>palfipm, aor. lirt^paxraro, aor. 

opt. m<f>pajcrfTaj[aTo : consider, 

think. 

€7ri-x^ovto5 (ySviv) : tipon earth, 
earthly. Epithet of men. 

IttXco, hr\€ro: thou art, is, aor. of 
irfXm move, become. 

€ir\rprro: aor. of TrcAafw approach, 
meet. 

€ir-ol(T€L : lay upon, fut. of lin^ipti^ 
bear upon. 

iir-oiyppjax, impf. liriixtro'. go t6, 
attack. €pycv iiroi\tcrBai go to 
work, iarov ivoixop.fvqy going to 
and fro before the loom, plying the 



VOCABULABY TO THE 



44 

loam, inw)(pfijiwi hmly, going to 
work, 

hrofjuu, impf . eurorro or hrcvro, fut. 

2^c7YU,aor.c(nr€ro(sequor) : fo^ 

low, accompany, attend. Cf. hrto. 
hr-opcyia, aor. iirop€(afuvois : reach 

out after (in attack), lunge at. 
iir-opyvfu, aor. imv. iiropaov : arouse 

upon, send against, 
iir-opowa, aor. cirdpoixrc: hasten to, 

rush upon (generally in hostile 

sense). 

liro9y -C09, dat. pi. iire^a-^mv or cttc- 

€(r(ri(v) (/reiros) : word, speech. 
CTT-orpvvfo, aor. subjv. ijroTpvvrjTov : 

rouse, urge on, impel. 
iir-ovpdvuK (ovpavds) : of heaven, 

heaventy. Epithet of the gods. 
lirrd : indeclin. seven. 
iirrd-TTvXos (wuhj) : seven-gated. 

Epith. of Boeotian Thebes, A 406. 
iirvOovro: abr. of irwOdvofJua learn. 
IrcD : am busy with. 
iir^X^To: impf. of iirUxpfuu attack, 
ipafuu (cpcns) : love. 
€paT€iv6s 3 and iparo^ (tpapax) : 

lovely, charming. 
ipyaJ9u>, impf. UpyaBtv (/rc/ry-) : 

separate. 

Hfyyoy {fipyov) : work, labor, deed, 
matter, thing; esp. of war, conflict, 
ipya dvSpSiv labors of men, tilled 

fields, hence Ipya alone farm, 

fields. 

tpyia or ccpyo) (fcpy-) : separate, keep 
off. ivTo^ €€py€L encloses, shuts in. 

ifAt), aor. subjv. ip$rj9, aor. imv. 
^/rfw, perf. iopye (/rcpy-) : do, 
work, freq. with two aces. Ip&>- 
€KaTOfiPas we were offering 
(hecatombs) sacrifices. Cf. pc^o). 

ipePeyvoq (ipt^os) 3 : dark, gloomy. 

ipeuvm {dpopai) : ask, question, in- 
quire. 

ipeOC^io and ipiOia : excite, vex. 



^/oeiSci), aor. iptlxraro, plpf . riprjpturro'. 
thrust, press ; aor. mid. lean, rest; 
plpf. was thrust. 

Ipdopjfv : aor. subjv. of dpopajL ask. 

ipuvu), aor. rjpiire or lpi?rc: ^^ar 
down; aor. /a//. 

ipe/ivos {Upefios) 3: gloomy. 

Ipe^c(v) : wrought, aor. of /Scfw c/o. 

ipiovro : impf. of upopm question. 

ipeTTTOfmi : champ, munch, of horses 

cpcTiys (Ipia-fTiii) : oarsman, sailor, 

Ipvrpjov (r e m u 8, * oar *) : oar. 

'Epcv^oAtW, -Q>Kos : an Arcadian 
champion, slain by Nestor, A 319. 

c/oe^Q), aor. cpe^ : roof, lin ipt^ 
roofed over, built. 

"Epcx^cvs, -§05 : originally identical 
with Erichthonius. An old hero 
of Athens, under whose rule (acc. 
to Hdt. viii. 44) the people were 
first caUed Athenians. S^/ios 
'Epe;(^o$ land of Erechtheus, i.e. 
Attica. 

cpco) : fut. of Apia say, tell. 

iptjfWi 3 : left alone, deserted. 

iprffrita, aor. opt. ipi^Tva€U, iterat. 
aor. €prrjfrofTa<TK^, aor. pass, ip-qrv' 
0€v l-qp-qrvOTfa'av] : restrain, check, 
control, keep in order. 

ipi' : strengthening prefix, cf. api-. 

ipi'PfoXai, -eucos : large-clodded, rich- 
soiled. 

€pt-y&w«ros : loud-sounding, heavy 
thundering. Epithet of Zeus. 

ipt&uvfo and ipiJjut, aor. opt. IpUr- 
o-cic, aor. partic. iphavre (cpts) : 
contend, strive, vie, am a match 
for. 

ipirfpoi, pi. ipirfp€i : faithful, trusty. 

Epithet of cTQupos. 
ipi-Or^T^s, -€s (0aAA(i)): luxuriant^ 

fresh-green. 
ipi-KvSrqs, -cs (kvSo?) : glorious. 
cptvcos: wild'fig^ree. 
ipi'jr€ : fall, aor. of ipeCvfo tear down. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



45 



*£/ots, -i8o9 : Eris, goddess of strife, 
a compaDion of Ares, A 440. 

Ipis, -tSos : strife, contention, conflict. 

lpCaravT€ partic, ipura-eu opt. : aor. 
of €p(((o contend, vie, 

ipuTfm, -aros (cpis) : matter of strife, 
cause of co%tention, 

ipi-TifJU}^ : highly honored, august, 

IpKOi, -C09 : hedge, wall, defence, lpK09 
dxovTftw defence against darts, tp- 
Koq iroKifwu} bulwark of protection 
against the war, tpKoq 'Axowov bul- 
wark of the Achaeans, cpKo^ oSov 
Twv wall of teeth, ue, wall formed 
by teeth. 

Ipfio, -aro« : prop, support, 

€pfi 68vvd(av: chain of pains, string 
(series) of sufferings, 

'Epfulas or 'Ep/xcas : Hermes, Mer- 
curius, son of Zeus, and messen- 
ger of the gods, B 104, E 390. 

"Epfuavrj : town in Argolis, B 560. 

Ipjiavm, lip^y^, <Lp^w, aor. of IpSca 
do, work. 

HpfK [Ipctfs] : love, desire. 

ipp€€v : irapf . of pcoi flow. 

^Lpp-q^tv : aor. of prfyyvpi break, rend, 

ipptyrja-i: perf. subjv. of piyiio shud- 
der, dread. Used as present. 

*Epv^voi pi.: 'Paphlagonian town, 
with two red cliffs (ipvOpo^), 
B 855. 

*EpvOp(a pL : Boeotian town, B 499. 
ipvKio, aor. tpv^av, ripvKaKt or cpv- 

jcoKc: check, detain, hold, keep, 
ipvpa, -aT05 : protection, defence, 
ipvopxu, eipvofjtm, tpvpm, or eipvfjm, 

impf. ipvro, aor. tipvauro, aor. 

inf. ttpwraraxrOaj, (f€pv-) : protect, 

preserve, observe, ward off. See 
» / 

CpVO). 

ipva-i-iTToXiL^ : see pvaevrToXtq, 
tpwa, aor. dpvao'tv or tpva-ev, perf. 

dpwrojL (f€p~) : draw, drag, mid. 

keep off, save, draw. See ipvopm. 



ipj(OfmL, fut. iXewTOfjuu or cl/u, aor. . 
^X$ov or rjXvBcv, aor. subjv. iKBryn, 
aor. imv. cXtfc, aor. inf. iXO€fJuev(ai) 
or iXBuv, perf. clXi/Xov^: come, 
go, Th e direction of the motion is 
made distinct by the connection. 

iptatm, fut. Ipaniau : flow, draw back, 
firj^ r* ipiO€i draw not back, do not 
rest. 

Ipwrq: force, throng, 
C9 : see els into. 
eV-ayo): lead in. 

c(r-a^p€o>, aor.opt. c(ra^/9i/<reiev: catch 
sight of. 

iarav [^oav] impf., Icrcoi [l<ny], ctrc- 
o^tu, and ^crcrat [loroi] fut. : of 
€iai am. 

ia-eXeva-QfJuu : fut. of thripxopm come 
in, enter, 

iadita, aor. <f>dy€: eat. 

ia-OXoq 3 : noble, excellent, good, 

€<TK€ : iterat. impf. of ei/u am. 

ifTKiSivavTO : impf. of a-K&vapjoA scat- 
ter, disperse, 

io'-Q^opm : fut. of dcropata behold, 

iairamLTo : aor. of aird<a draw, 

kairiadyp^, eawofjueOa : aor. of hropai 
follow, accompany, 

<Unr€T€ : aor. imv. tell. 

€a'a'€{v), €(raro: aor. of evwfu clothe. 
Construed with two aces. 

ia-areiTca, IfToropm fut., ccrcri 2d sing, 
pres. : of dpi am, 

taareva aor., iaarevovro impf., ctrcrv- 
pjeyov perf. partic, ia-avro plpf . : 
of creixo drive ; mid. hasten, 

ia-avpM^m : adv. quickly, eagerly. 

k<rrdpjEv perf. inf. stand, 2d aor. Icrrav 
[lonpav] wp, rose, perf. par- 
tic. IcrraoTcs standing, plpf. Icrra- 
(Tuv tcc?*€ standing, perf. hrrqKt 
stands, 1st aor. l(mj(T€ and lon/- 
ouv stationed : of icrrqpi set. 

i<TT€ pi., ifTTov dual, loTCi) and larm 
imv. : of ei^' ant. 



46 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



cWcam : standing, perf . partic. of 

lartffu set. 
iarixowyro: impf. of arixoofjuu go 

in line, go. 
iavXd : impf. of avXaia strip off. 
la-ffHiiav: aor. of o-<^a{^o> cut the 

throat. 

itrxoTOwra: at the extremity (hrxa- 
T09), on the frontier. 

€<rx€ (took)y held, hrxpvro held them- 
selves (refrained) from: aor. of 
hold. 

crcupog or erapoi : comrade, com- 
panion. 

krofjrqi fem. companion. 

€T€Kc(v) : aor. of tCktio bear, bring 
forth. 

crcXcicro impf., cre\co-o-cv aor. : of 

rcActw bring to pass, accomplish. 
"EreofcAi/eio? : adj. of Eteocles. fiirf 

*ETCOKkrf€iT^ the mighty Eteocles. 

See pirf. 
ireov : adv. in truth. 
iT^poc 3 : other, the other of two, one 

or other. ;(ci>Xo« hrtpow iro&i lame 

in one foot. Cf. g[AAo9. 
kripia-$€v: adv. on the other side. 
€T€pa>-Oi : adv. elsewhere. 
mpuHTc : adv. to the other side. 
(i)T€Tfi€(y) : aor. found, fett in with. 
IrirvKTo : was, plpf . of tcv;(<o make. 
'Etcwws : Boeotian town, B 497. 
Irrfi {pirrffi)' connection, friend. 
iTTjTVfwv: adv. ace, truly. 
cTt : adv. still, yet, again, ovk cti no 

longer. 

CTLvaic : plucked, aor. of rivaxra-io 
shake. 

iriofuy impf., hrlxrev aor.: of tmo 
honor. 

ittauTo: aor. of ram punish. 
irXtfi aor. took courage; see rXif- 
a-ofjua. 

crocfux^lcD, aor. imv. crot/xooarc (Irot- 
fbos) : make ready. 



Ito5, -cos (fcros, vetus) : year. 
Irpairev : aor. of rpeirw turn, 
irpa^mfv : grew up, aor. of rpc^ 

nourish. 
Irpofft : aor. of rpeiroi fum. 
Itvx€^ : aor. of nry^avo) 
ir^xOrj : aor. pass, of t€vx<o bring to 

pass. 

€Twno9 (fCT-) : in vain. 

€v or cj; : adv. we/Z, happily, care- 
fully. lp$avTa (one who did . 
well), a well-doer, benefactor, iv 
iravra all together. 

*Evaifwyv8vfi: sonofEuaemon,'Ewrj- 
pylus, E 76. 

^EvajLfuay, -ovos : Euaemon, B 736. 

"EvjSoca: Euboea, B 536. 

iv^lkrjfroii (Sifjua) : well-built. 

cvSo): sleep. 

hy-v&rf^, -€09 : beautiful, comely, r.48. 
ijxfyyrj^, -cos: well-wrought, well' 
made. 

€v^annt^(C<jnnff): well-girdled,well-girt. 
Evi/vds : a Lyrnessian, B 693. 
CV107A0S : tn ^te^, undisturbed. Cf. 

iv-KviQfus, -tSos : well-greaved. Epi- 
thet of 'Axatot, nom. or acc. pi. 
See Kvrf/us- 

€v-KTLfJL£vos 3 and cvrriTos (KrtJ^o)): 

cv-kvkXos : well-rimmed, of shields. 
Ev/Ai/Xos : Eumelus, son of Admetas 

and Alcestis, B 714. 
iv-fifjxXiri^, S®"' ivfJLftjeXlio: with good 

ashen spear, 
cvvdm, aor. pass, partic. wrfihrrt 

and timfitixTa (cvny) : pass* lying 

on the couch. 
cwij: bed, couch, ifuyrfy ^cXon^ 

Koi tinrg " enjoyed (her) love and 

embrace." 
euval pi. : anchor-stones. 
eviavTo : aor. of ev)(Ofmi pray. 
cihfoos (few) : well-polished. 



-9 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



47 



ciMrairejpcca (van^p): daughter of a 

noble father. 
cvircirXos: well-robed, 
ivmfKTo^ (wi^yvvfu) : toell-built, 
ev-irXcicTs, -cos : well-plaited. 
cv-irXofca/io$ (irXcico)) : fair-tresfted, 

tmth beautiful tresses. 
ivjToCriTos (iroicctf) : well-made, 
cu-^pv/uivo9 (wpyfivrf) : with beautiful 

stems, of the Greek ships, A 248. 
ciMTcoAos : with good (or many) 

horses. 

€vptaKU}, aor. cvpov and cvpe/tcm: 

Evpos : Eur us, E(m^ unW, B 145. 

cVppciJs and ivppeiTrfi, gen. (con- 
tracted from ivppcioi) ivpp€io9 
(pco)) : strong-flowing. 

cvpv-ayvca : iriM 5roa£? streets^ broad- 
streeted. 

EvpwXos : an Argive, B 565, Z 20. 

'EvpvParrfi : (1) herald of Agamem- 
non, A 320. (2) Herald of Odys- 
seus, B 184. 

Evpv&xfias, -ayros: an old Trojan 
seer, E 149. 

eupv Kpeidjv : wide-ruling, late 
tyr annus. Epithet of Aga- 
memnon. 

Evpvfi€3<tfv: squire of Agamemnon, 
A 228. 

cvpiHnra (nom. and acc.) (Jonji) : far- 
sounding, far-thundering. Epi- 
thet of Zeus. (Perhaps yiir-sccin^r, 
from (S^.) 

EvpvirvAos : Eurypylus. (1) Son of 
Euaemon, B 736. (2) Ancient 
^ng of Cos, B 677. 

€ifpv-p€iov: broad-flowing. 

cvpvs, evpcui, €vpv : broad, wide, spa- 
cious. Comp. €vpvT€poi broader. 

Evpvros: (1) A famous bowman, 
B 596. (2) Son of Actor, B 621. 

€vpv--)(opoi : (with broad squares for 
the choral dance), spacious. 



ilk, €v, and ^v^, genr c^os: noble, 

valiant, good. 
cv-cro-cA/AOS : well-decked. 
"Evo-o-copos : a Thracian, Z 8. 
c^n-c: conj. when; (u, in F 10. See 

rjvT€. 

€v-Tct;(€09: well-^oalled. 
Evrfyrja-is : Boeotian town, B 502. 
€i>TvicTos (tcv^w) : well-made. 
Ev^/ios : leader of the Cicones, 
B 846. 

cv-^pcuW, fut. inf. €v<f>pav€€w 

(<^pi7v) : cheer, delight, 
iv ff>paviiav: well disposed, with kindly 

heart. 

iv<f>p<av, -wos : kindly, heart-cheering, 
ev-^vq^, -€9 (<f>wi)) : shapely. 
evxeroofuu, inf. tvxErdjaxrOai (cu^o* 

fuu) : pray, 
evxopxu, aor. cv^ayro : profess, boast, ^ 

exult, vow, pray. 
cv^os, -cos : glory. 

cvx<tfXi7 : exultation, boast, triumph, 
shout of triumph, vow. % 

€v-w&rp, -cs (odor) : fragrant, per- 
fumed. 

l<^aXos (oXs) : on the sea. Epithet 
of coast towns. Cf. dyxvaXo^' 

itjidfxrp^, €<l>av [^<^ao"av], c<^to, €<fnf: 
impf. of 4^pA say, speak. 

€<fMvrf : appeared, aor. pass, of ^cuVq) 
show. 

i<f>-d'7mo, perf . pass. Iffjvprrax : fasten 

upon; pass, impend. 
i<f>-il^ofjtM : sit upon. 
€<f>-€(io subjv., c^cs imv. : of itfnrjpjL 

lay upon, shoot at. 
iifyearamLV stood opposite, i<f>€<rr^K€i, 

stood upon : plpf . of i<l>(arrffu set 

upon. 

i<f>-€iru}, aor. subjv. itriOTrrj: meet. 

TTOTftov iwunretv meet (his) fate 

(death), fulfil his destiny. 
lff>-i<mvi {k<rria) : adj. (on his own 

hearth), at hom£, native. 



48 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



c^-erfiiy {iift-lrifU) : behest, command, 

injunction, 
€iff-€vpi/iTKia, aor. opt. iffKvpoi : find, 

catch sight of. 
c<l>-rjK€(v) : aor. of iifw^fu send upon, 

shoot at. 
t^n/yty : aor. of ^xuvia show. 
ifff^^m-ajL : impend, perf. of iffHttmo 

fasten upon. 
€<l>^uq : fut. of iifUrffU urge on. 
ItfnfcrOa [€<^]it impf. of ffqfusay. 
€if>$(aTO : plpf . of ^iVd) waste away, 

pass away, 
iifylvffu, fut. Itfutftmi^, aor. I^ko, aor. 

subjy. c^Q> [c<^], aor. itp v. |<^€9 : 

send upon. 
^iMXrtfi : a giant, E 385. 
i^iXaro and c^cXto-c : aor. of ^iXcco 

love. 

€<f>-iaTrffU, plpf. €<f>€aTi^K€i and €<^€- 
OTcurav: |7/ace ii/>on; plpf. stand 
upon. 

ii^PrfBtv [i^tofirfirifTav] : aor. pass. 

of ^p€(t>put to flight. 
iffHKTa: impf. of ^otrao) go to and 

fro. 

€<^<wrXii(i) : make ready, prepare. 
l<f>-opaLia : look upon, behold. 
€<f>6peiv : impf. of <f>opiia wear. 
€<l>-opfMi<a, aor. iKffiopfirja-av, aor. pass. 

partic. i<l>opfiri$€irT€s : urge upon; 

pass, rush upon, attack. 
*E<l>vprj: (1) old name of Corinth, 

Z 152, 210. (2) Home of king 

Augeas, B 659. 
cxaSc : aor. of )(aviavto contain. 
€xoipri • aor. pass, of x^^f^ rejoice. 
Ix^ev : aor. of pour, heap. 
*Ex€/bi/i(i)v, -wos : son of Priam, E 160. 
lyt-irtvK-q^, -€S : biting, sharp. 
"Ex«ra)Xo9: a Trojan, A 458. 
Ixtvav and cx^udlto: aor. of x^wpour, 

throw around, (rvv cxcvav confused, 

broke. 

lyBuTTo^ : sup. mo*i hateful. 



cx0o-3oir€Ci>, aor. inf. cx^oSoir^ooi : 

dc^ tn hostility, A 518. 
cx^) -cos : hatred, hate. 
"Exivai : the later Echinades, a group 

of small islands in the Ionian Sea, 

near the mouth of the Acheloiis, 

B625. 

lx<0) iterat. impf. cxc(rfC€(v), fut. inf. 
iiifjuev, aor. c(txc, aor. opt. (rxptaro, 
aor. axiOov: have, hold, inhabit, 
guide, keep, protect, check, r^v 
*Ayrrivop&iffi c7x€ t(7^om the son of 
Antenor had to wife, voiXcficcos c'x^ 
fuv stand finn, Ifrxpvro pjoxtp 
ceased fighting. 

hj/cnu : fut. of hrofuu follow. 

cofKccv : plpf. of pei^. cotKa am like. 

iiitfuv: pres. subjv. of cao) allow. 

itov [w] : partic. of eifu am. 

if^voxoa, : impf. of clvoxo€(o pour out 
wine, pour out. (Better, coivox^) 

[cctfs : see cTos while, until.'} 

Z. 

{a-: inseparable particle, very, ex- 
ceedingly. Prob. a form of 8ia. 

larOtoi 3 : very sacred, holy. 

ia-KOTOs (K0T09) : sullen, T 220. 

ZaxvvOo^ : Zacynthus, (Zante), is- 
land in the Ionian sea, under the 
rule of Odysseus. (A short open 
final syllable retains its quantity 
before Z in this word as before 
ZcXeeo, 3 634,824.) 

{a-xpcti/s, -cs: fierce-rblomng, furi- 
ous. 

l^eiSiapoi (i€uu) : grain-giving, fr^iit- 
ful. 

ZeXeia: town in Northern Lycia, 
home of Pandarus, B 824, A 103, 
121. (A short open final syUable 
is not lengthened before this 
word. See on ZaicvvA>s.) 

(^evyvv/u (fvyov) : yoke. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



49 



Zm, gen. Ac<is or Tttjvi^: Zeus, 
Jupiter, son of Cronus (Kpovi- 
S)^), and both husband and 
brother of Hera. The wisest and 
mightiest of the gods, father of 
both men and gods (mrrip di/Sgpcav 
T€ B&av Tc). He is enthroned on 
high (v^ifvyos tuBipi valotv), and 
controls the elements, sending 
lightning ( rc/sTri/cc/oawos, aarepo- 
mfn^, vil/i,pp€fi€Tvfi) and gather- 
ing the clouds (vc<^cX?7ycpera). 

Zc^pos ((0^09) : Zepkyrus, west 
wind, one of the four chief winds 
mentioned by Homer. It is not 
a * Zephyr,' but a cold, blustering 
wind, blowing from Thrace. 
B147. 

fvyw (jugum): yoke. 

Iwypiw ((^cix>9, dyp€<a) : take alive. 

(ar//9€(i> dycijpo)) : revive, give 

life, E 698. 

{(tf/ua (^iavyvfu): the lower part of 
the cuirass (protecting the upper 
part of the thighs), over which 
the girdle (Cwrryp) was placed. 

ifavYf (* zone *) : woman's girdle, 
waist. 

^(owvfu, iterat. impf. (^cdwixtkcto : 
gird. 

i<o6q or {(05 : alive, living. 

J^wrrjjp, -^po$: man's girdle, belt; 

prob. made of leather. 
((iKa, partic. ^Sivro^ and (^(oorres : live. 

H. 

^ or Tii: particle, (1) disjunctive, 
either, or; (2) interrogative, wheth- 
er; or (3) comparative, than. In 
a double question rj {rit) . . . rf 
(§€) is used for Attic iror^pav 
• • • If. 

fl : fem. of demonstrative, relative, 
or possessive proa. 



ri : truly, surely, indeed. This often 
introduces a direct question, but 
always expresses feeling, and 
never is a mere interrogation 
point, as it often is in Attic. 

^ : impf. of Tiiu say. 

y : adv. whither. 

^ (eram) : impf. of dpi am. 

'^fiauLov: adv. little, ov^ rjPajLov not 
in the least. 

flPam, aor. partic. '^P'qoavTt (riPrf) : 
am a youth ; aor. came to manhood. 

"^Prj : Hebe, daughter of Zeus and 
Hera, cup-bearer of the gods, A 2, 
E 722, 905. 

^yayc(v) : aor. of ayw lead. 

-qyadw 3 : very sacred. 

rfyaxraxLTo : aor. of ayapm admire. 

§y€ : impf. of aya> lead. 

rjyeipa : aor. of iycipo) rouse. 

rjycipovTO : impf. of ayecpco assemble. 

riytpxmviti ( ijyc/iwv) : am leader. 

rjycpMv, -ovos : leader, chief. 

•fjyeopm, aor. •^yt^ouro (aycj) : lead, 
guide. 

riytpWopjox (dyccpo)): assemble, col- 
lect (themselves). 

rjyepOev [^ipOrfo-av] : aor. of dyeipci) 
assemble. 

ijyi7r(op,.-opo5 (^ycofuu) : leader. 

•^yvoCrfa-cv : aor. of dyvotcoi fail to 
know, fail to perceive. 

rpfopomvTo: impf. of ayopdopM am 
in assembly. 

^8c : and. Sometimes correl. with 

giScc or giSiy : plpf . of perf . o?8a know. 
^81;: temporal adv., now, already, 
before now. vvv ySvj now at once. 
^8os, -60S (iJSony, iJSvs) : pleasure. 
lySihCTny?, -€s : sweet-voiced, A 248. 
rjdvpjoi : sweet. 

i^Sus, -eio, -V (avSdvo)) : sweet, pleas- 
ing. 178V yiXaxrauv burst into a 
merry laugh. 



50 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



^e, ^ : see 17. 

*HcXios ['HAios] : Helius, sun-god, 

r277. 
i7e\ios : the sun, 
rifv : impf. of dfu am, 
^pWofJuai (aci/octf) : hang, wave,JliUt€r, 
rfipL : dat. of a-qp air, mist, 
ll€pCfiota : Eriboea, E 389. 
^cpi09 3 : adj . early in the morning ; 

always in the pred., as adv. 
^cpo-«^iJs, -€9 : misty, oaxrw 8* rj€po- 

€iSkq r8cv as far as he sees into the 

misty distance. 
'HmW, -<avos : Eetton, king of Hy- 

poplacian Theba near Troy, father 

of Hector's wife Androniache; 

slain by Achilles on the capture 

of Theba, A 366, Z 396, 415 ff. 
^$€io9 : honored, dear. Applied by 

a younger to an elder brother, 
pi. ^^ca: home, haunt (of 

horses). 
rjie : impf. of ct/u go, 
^ii9eos: youth, young man not yet 

married. 

rji(€v, ijix^' *or. of diWco dart, rush, 
'Htdvcs pi. : town in Argolis, B 561. 
yiwv, -ovo?.: beach, seashore, 
1710-ets, -cvTos : high-hanked, E 36. 
^ica: adv. softly, gently, 
rjKa : aor. of ?i//u send, cast, 
YjKiaxLTo : aor. of aKiOfuu heal, cure, 
iJiccoTos 3 : ungoaded, of cattle not 

broken for service. 
rjKta : am come, 
^XoKarrf: spindle. 
TjXxurev : aor. of iXavvio drive, 
^XacKU) (oAoo/iai) : hover. 
rfXiicnop, -opo^ : the beaming sun. 
^XiyAaro: plpf. pass, of iXavvm drive. 
^XBov : aor. of tpxopM come, 
*HAi9, h8o9 : Elis, the westeni coun- 
try of Peloponnesus, B 615, 626. 
Northern Elis belonged to the 
Epeans, Southern Elis to Kestor. 



17A0S: naU, stud, used as an oma^ 
ment for staff, hilt of sword, or 
goblet. 

rikvBav : aor. of tpyppjox come, 
'HA(tfvi; : Thessalian town, B 739. 
rffjutSo-eK {ofiaOoi) : sandy, 
rjpajL, 2d sing, rjfrai, 3d pi. cSxtku or 
earai, irav. 170-0, inf. rj^rOai, partic. 
•Sjfievoi, impf. rjfirp^, 3d pi. impf. 
ciaro : sit. This verb with a par- 
tic, often marks the continuance 
of a state, esp. where a person is 
given up to grief or misfortune. 
^pap, -ttTOS (ijficpa) : day, SovXujv 
ripap day of slavery, slavery, vvktos 
T€ Koi rfpap by (through) night and 
day, 

TjpPpoTC^ : aor. of apjCLprdvio miss. 
rjp£ifi€To : impf. of apjeCpopm answer, 
'^pjus, gen. i^/icWori^/ictW, dat. ijfuv 

or afifu, acc. a/i/ne : we, us, pi. of 

cyo). 

^pxv\ particle, generally correl. with 
^8€, both — and. Cf pAv...U 

•^p.€T€po9 (i7fiei9) 3: our, 

rfpi impf. ^ : say, speak, ^ iccu is 
used after a speech that is re- 
poi'ted, where the same subject is 
continued for the following verb. 

ripjL-ovoKi : (half-ms), mule, 

rjpjurvs, -€UJL, -v: half, -^pwv np^ 
half of the honor, 

i7/u-rcA.i79, -€s (tcXos) : half-finished, 
uncompleted, 

9fu>9: when. 

ripim, aor. opt. 17/ivo'eec: droop its 
head, bow. 

ffv : ct av, if, with subjv. 

^v&ive: itxipi.oi avSdyio please, (ay- 
Sav€ is a better reading.) 

•^V€pj6-a,q, -€(rau, -cv (avc/xos) : windy, 
wind-swept. Epithet of high- 
situated towns, esp. of Ilios. 

yveov: impf. of aiv€<a praise, com- 
mend. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



51 



l^na pL: reins^ of the chariot-horses; 

freq. adorned with thin plates of 

ivory or metal. 
iJn-oxcvS) -^os, and yivi-oxo^ (vvul, 

iL)(ia) : charioteer » 
yivtmirt : aor, of ivvtmo rebuke, 

-io$, acc. pi. : sleekf shining 

(of cattle). • 
^vopetf, loc. as dat. rivoperi^ {ovrjpy 

ay&peCa,) : manliness, bravery, 
-qvr^TO : impf . of avTOfuu meet, 
•^vrqcre : aor. of drroo) meet, 
rivijayiu : impf. of Svniya bid. 
^ : see clos u^At'/^, until. 
yftrtiK-qdev: aor. of d^rciXeo) threaten, 
rprtipoi : mainland, land. 
rjirepoTrevT^ : deceiver. 
^epo9revci>: deceive , trick. 
4iru>-8Q>po9 : kindly-giving, kindly, 

generous. 
'qiruK : kindly, soothing, 
tjpa. (^pjpa) : pleasure, always obj. of 

f^ipav. fitfTpi tin ypa <l>€p<i]iv doing 

service of love to hi^ mother. 
HpaxXciS^ : son of Heracles, B 653, 

679. 

'HpoicXi/eios 3: of Heracles. fUtf^Mpar 
Kkrfcirj the might of Heracles, 
the mighty Heracles. See fiirf. 
B65S. 

rjpap€ : aor. of ofiopia-KO} ft. Join. 

jjpaTO : aor. of dpwfuu gain. 

'^paro : impf. of apdjofuu pray. 

npav : impf. of aipcco seize. 

a/nfi Hera, Juno, daughter of 
Cronus, both wife and sister of 
Zeus. Argos, Mycenae, and 
Sparta are her favorite cities. 
She hates the Trojans, and strong- 
ly favors the Greeks. She is called 
large-eyed (fio5>Tns)t revered (iror- 
vul), white-armed (Xev/ca)Xcvo9)> 

ypvjp€UTTo: plpf. pass, of ipeCSia 
thrust. 

^/nfcraro : aor. of dpdofuu pray. 



rfpi-yeveui : early-bom, child of the 

morning. Epithet of 'H(tf9 Dawn, 
ripiirt : /?//, aor. of ipdvoi tear down, 
•qpKta-t : aor. of apK€Q} avail, ward off 
rjpiMO't : aor. of apfio^tn ft. 
ypvKOKe : aor. of ipvK(t> check, 
•^pwi, -itio^, dat.pl. i^pcoccro'tv : war" 

rior, hero. Not yet in the specific 

modern sense of hero. 
^(Tcu 2d sing., ^arOcu inf., i^o^j/v dual, 

^o-o imv. : of ^pm sit. 
^cTKCiv : impf. of djtrK€u> prepare. 
i7<m/v: dual impf. of dpi am. 
•QT€€ : impf. of (urco) ask. 
yttpaaey : aor. of drt/Lta^ci> slight. 
yTtp.rf(Tc(y) : aor. of drt/xao) slight, 
ri roL : asseverative particle, believ6 

me, in truth, indeed, 
^op, -opo^: heart, as part of the 

human body, and the seat of life, 

joy, grief, etc., mind ; lungs, B 490.* 
yfi^ : impf. of av&£(i) speak. 
rfv-Kopjo^: fair-haired, 
rjvi, rjv: see evs noble, valiant, 
rjvae : aor. of av<o shout. 
•^vT€ : as, introducing a comparison. 

appears blacker (even) like pitch. 
See evT€. 

'H<^<rTos : Hephaestus, Vulca- 
nus, son of Zeus and Hera, god 
of fire and of metal-work (done 
by the aid of fire). His home 
was on Olympus. He favored 
the Greeks against the Trojans. 
His name is used for his element, 
fire, B 426. A 571 ff., B 101 f., 426. 

VXl • great din. 

VX'T^^f -ccrcra : resounding, roaring. 

iJx* : locative adv. where. 

yijiaTo: aor. of airTopai. touch, lay 
hold of, clasp. 

*Hci)9, gen. *Hoos : Eos, Dawn, 
Aurora, goddess of the morn- 
ing. She is called early-bom 



52 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



(i}ptyci«ia), rosy-fingered (poSoBd- 
ktvXkk) and saffron-robed (kpok6- 
ircn-Aos). 

^(09, gen. ^oos or 1701)$, acc. 7001 or 
i7«t> : morning, dawn, 

0. 

ft£Xa/ios: wom^n'^ apartment, cham- 
ber (esp. of married people), «fore- 
room. 

OaXouro'a: sea, 

BaXdxrirtos : of the sea. 

OaXxpo^ (^oAXcd) 3 : blooming, vigor- 
ous, swelling. 

®aXircos : Epean leader, B 620. 

$aX.iriopi^: comfort, Joy. 

®aXvat^Svji : son of Thalysitis, A 458. 

Oafjifi€«a, aor. OofiPrfo-ey: aor. won- 
der came over (him). 

Odfifio^, -€05 : wonder, amazement. 

OafJL€Uu or Oafuiai fern. pi. : adj. 
thick, close. 

@dfivpLsi Thamyris, a mythical 
Thracian bard, B 595. 

Odvaro^: death. 

6dv€ aor., &av€€(rOajL fut. inf. : of 
OinjaKin die. 

Oair- : see rcft^irorcs dazed. 

^ofxraXio^ (Oapao^) 3 : bold, coura- 
geous. 

Bapaimt, aor. $dp(rq(r€ : am bold, dare, 

take courage. 
Odpa-oi, -cos : courage, daring, 
^apavvto, iterat. impf. OoLp&vvta'Ke: 

cheer, encourage. 
Oaa-aou: adv., comp. of raxv, the 

quicker, the sooner, at once. 
^avfJuoL, -aT09 : a wonder, marvel. 
^v/Ao^Qi: wonder, admire. 
^avfioLKirj: a Magnesian town under 

the rule of Philoctetes, B 716. 
$€a: goddess, 

®€avfo : wife of Antenor, and priest- 
ess of Athena in Ilios, Z 298 ft., 
A 223 f. 



$€€v, Biov : impf. of Oiio run. 
$€ivai inf., $€{ofuv subjy. : aor. of 

TiOrjfu place. 
Buvofujx : am struck. 
tfctos or BuQS (^€os): of the gods, 

divine, sacred, god-like, 
$tL<o : see tfco) run. 
$€X.o} : wish, desire. jSee iOtXw. 
$€/uv(u : aor. inf. of riOrffu place, 

make. 

OifUSf -toT09, pi. OifUOTCs (riOrifu) : 
natural law, what is fitting; pi. 
laws, decrees, rj $€fu^ iarC as is 
right, as is lawful. 

-Oey : inseparable suffix, forming an 
ablatival gen. 

OiiKLp, -apo^i hollow of the hand, E 339. 

0€o-€iS^, -€s (cTSos) and ^eo-ciiceXos : 
god-like. Of beauty of person, 
without reference to moral quali- 
ties. Cf. UroOcoi. 

Bco-vpojrtwv : partic. prophesying, 
declaiming the divine will. 

dtfyirpofiriri and Oeovponnoy: oracle, 
prophecy, will of the gods. 

Oco^ : god, divinity. Cf. &ufuuv. 

Btpdnrtav, -ovro^ : attendant, squire, 
comrade. A servant, but free, and 
doing voluntary service. 

©epatrrfs (Odpaoq;) : ThersVes, the 
ugliest and most insolent of the 
Greeks, B 212-271. 

^cpctf : warm, with gen. 

^€9 imv., $i(mv ind. : aor. of rCBr^pi 
place, make. 

BifTKfXofi : wondrous, strange. 

®€aTr€UL [©eoTTtoT] : Thespiae, in 
Boeotia, at the foot of Mt. Heli- 
con, B 498. 

BeairiauK 3 : divine, marvellous, beau- 
tiful. BtfnrtfrCri by decree of the 
gods. 

©co-oioXos : a son of Heracles, B 679. 
®€<rropi^ : son of Thestor, CalchaSi 
A 69. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



63 



Bia-'t^Toy: oracle, 

©cVis, -iSos : ThetiSf a sea-goddess, 
wife of Peleus, and mother of 
Achilles, A 351 ff., 495 ff., S 35 ff ., 
369 ff., O 74 ff. She is caUed 
silver-footed {apyvpa-wcl^a) and 
Bvydrrjp dXuHO ycpovros. 

^ero : aor. of rlOrffU place. 

$€fo or OcL<o : run. 

®^Pai or ®Tjfi7f : Thebes, the princi- 
pal town of Boeotia. It had been 
destroyed by the * Epigoni ' and 
does not seem to have been in- 
habited at the time of the Trojan 
war, cf. 'YiroO^ficn, B 505. It was 
seven-gated (cTrrairvXos), A 406. 

B^Ptj : Theba, a Cilician town in 
the Troad under the rule of An- 
dromache's father Eetion ; it was 
sacked by Achilles. A 366, B 691, 
Z 397, 416. 

ft/yo)) aor. imv. &q$acr$io: sharpen, 
whet. 

OijK€(y) : aor. of riOrjfU place, make. 
O^Xvi, Ot^Xcul: female. OtjXvq is used 

also as fern, 
ftjv : enclitic particle, doubtless, ov 

$rjv*'l don't think." 
^p, gen . Oi^pos : wild beast, 
^fyq i^p) ' hunting, chase, 
&rjpfffn^p, -T]po^ : hunter. 
^/crcvs, -^os: Theseus, mythical 

king of Athens and national hero 

of Attica, ally of the Lapithae, 

A 265. 

-Oi : inseparable locative suffix. 
Otq, dat. SivC: beach, strand, 
^Ca-pri: between Mt. Helicon and 

the Corinthian gulf, not far from 

the coast, B 502. 
OXoM, aor. OXaxra'€ : crush. 
OvyfTKia, fut. OayUtrOajL, aor. Au/c, 

perf. opt rc$vaCrjy perf. partic. 

T€OyrfiTa : die ; perf. am dead. 
$¥rrr6^ 3 : mortal. 



®oa9, -ayros: Thoas, Aetolian leader, 
B 638, N 216 ft., O 281 ff. 

^oos {Biio) 3 : swift, rapid, quick. 

Ooptav : aor. partic. of Opwa-Kfa leap. 

Bcfvpo^, f em. Boivpi^, : impetuous, 
raging. Epithet of "A/m;? and of 
dXicj. 

0<W, -ci>vo9 : a Trojan, E 152. 
6oS^ (^oos) : adv. quickly, swiftly. 
$paj(Tv-pAp.vi»)v, -ovos : brai^e-hearted, 

of Heracles, E 639. 
Bpajtnk, -ctoL, -V (Sdpo'Oi) : bold. 
Opimrpa pi. (jpi^na) : gifts in return 

for nurture. ouSc toiccwi Bpfmrpa 

anrihtuKt he did not return his par* 

ents* care. 
Bp&lf€ : aor. of rpiifxa nourish, rear. 
®f^^y -t#cos, or ®pS^' Thracian. 

The Thracians were allies of the 

Trojans. 

Bpi^, gen. T/jtxos : hair, wool (of 
lambs). Ci 

®p6viJov: Locrian 11 
town, B 533. 11 

Opovo^ : seat, chair, \ \ , 

esp. a high arm- AX"^ 

chair, with back • 
and foot-stool, < ■> i ^ 
throne. ' J ^^^3 

Opooi : shout, cry, - , 

T437. 

®pvov : a Pylian town, on the banks 

of the Alpheus, near the frontier 

of Elis, B 592. 
Bp^Kin, aor. lOopt : leap, rush. 
OvyaTqp, acc. Ovyarpa or Ovyarcpa : 

daughter. 
6vU<T<jLv : dat. pi. of Ow burnt offer* 

ing. 
^vcAXu: blast. 

®ve(rrqi or&viara: Thyestes, grand- 
son of Tantalus, son of Pelops, 
brother of Atreus, father of 
Aegisthus (Clytaemnestra's para 
mour), B 106 f . 



54 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



tfu/iroXyifg, 4g : heart-grieinng, 

%vitolrrfi : an aged Trojan, V 146. 

BvfAJo-Xiiov, -orros: lion-hearted. 

Ovfwi I hearty soul, spirit, as the seat 
of life, and of the desires, pas- 
sions, reason, and will. Ovfi^ in 
heart, within, opivta Ovfjuoy touch 
the heatt ; move to fear, anger, or 
pity, Cf, KapSiy and ic^p. 

Ovfio-ifMpoi^iftdelpio): life-destroying. 

^VKO), impf. Bivf. : rtuih madly, hasten. 

$voq, -cos : burnt-offering / probably 
not animal sacrifices, but some 
kind of incense. 

$vpa^€ : adv. (out of the door), out. 

$v^Tpa pi. : door, of Priam's palace. 

fivfyq: door, iirl Uptd^juouo OvfyQ<nv 
^* before Priam's palace." 

$v<rav6-u<s, -£(raa : tasselled, fringed. 

Swravoii tassel, fringe. 

OvaOXa'pl. (Ov(ni) : thyrsi, wands used 
in the worship of Dionysus, Z 134. 

$v<o: rage. 

0(Ofnf$, ffKOi: breast-plate, cuirass. 
Armor for the protection of the 
upper part of the body ; the lower 
part of it was called the {(o/lui. 
The Owfn]$ seems to have been 
composed of two large plates 
(yvoAa), one for the back, another 
for the front. 




tfttynfcno-o), aor. subjv. 9wpi^ofi€v, aor. 
pass. Oiop^)(0rj(rav: arm, equip with 
cnirass. 

I. 

la [fua] : fern, of to9 [cts] one. 
^IdXfum : Boeotian leader, B 513. 
tojofjuu, aor. hjaaro : heal, cure. 

«£x(i) Xpia^y. shout, shriek, yell, 

'lactiAicog [*I(tiA#cog] : lolcus, on the 
Pagasaean gulf, B 712. 

"I&ubs: Idaeus, (1) Trojan herald 
r 248. (2) A Trojan warrior, 
Ellff. 

ZSc: conj. and, Cf. rjH. 

cScctv inf., r8c(v) ind., subjy. 
mid., (f aor.: see cTSok saw, 

^I&rj: Ida, a lofty mountain-chain 
in the Troad, stretching from 
northwest to southeast, with 
many projecting shoulders. 

'l^€v: from ML Ida, T 276. 

iSficK [iCTficK] : 1st pi. of oc&i know. 

2&/oa>, pass. dep. tSvw^ : bend over. 

tSoifU : opt. of cTSoK saw, 

~l8o/Acvcv9, -170s : leader of the Cre- 
tans (B 645), son of Deucalion, 
grandson of Minos, and great- 
grandson of Zeus and Europa 
(N 449 ff.) ; highly esteemed by 
Agamemnon (A 145> B 405^ 
A 257 ft,), and by Menelaus 
(T 230 ff.). He was one of the 
older leaders, cf, fuaaiiroXioq 
N 361 grizzled. He reached home 
in safo^ after the war (y 191). 

180K : epic for cI8ov saw, 

iSpwa, f ut. lBp<MT€i, aor. I&pwaa: sweat, 

iSpvia, aor. pass. l&pvvOrjaay {&Oi)'. 
seat, cause to sit down. 

t8pQ>s, -<tfTos (sudor, sweat) : sweat 

l&vla.'. fem. partic. of biSa know. 

IStofuu : subjy. mid. of cTSoi^ saw, 

la impf., Uuw 3d pi. : of Irf/u send. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



55 



Ufuu : desire, mid. of Itffu send, 

£€(v) impf., UvojL inf. : of J/u go. 

leFres : partic. of ti^fu hurl. 

Upaa : priestess, Z 300. 

tepeJs or cpcvs, -^os : priest. He was 
attached to a definite service or 
temple; hence no priests are 
mentioned in the Achaean army. 

iepaSui, fut. inf. i€p€wr€fjuev, aor. Icpcv- 
(Tcv: sacrifice, offer in sacrifice; 
slaughter, since most of the flesh 
of the victims was eaten, and on 
the other hand no flesh was eaten 
until a part had been sacrificed 
to the gods. 

Upov and pi. t/sa : offering, sacrifice, 
victim for sacrifice. 

tcpos 3 : holy, sacred. 

imv. mid. tfev, impf. mid. V^ovro 
^ » ^^oJty sit, rest, 

*Ii/A.vo-os : lalysus, one of the chief 
cities of Rhodes, B 656. 

n/fu, 3d pi. uUn, partic. Uvrts, impf. 
lei, pass. UvToi, impf. mid. Zero, 
aor. ^fca or ei^ica, aor. opt. cn/, aor. 
mid. crro: send, hurl, cast, shoot, 
throw, drop, put; pres. mid. desire. 
V irjiraxrOai : inf. of iaofiM heal, 

ufrT]pt -^po9 (larpoi, Idofuu) : healer, 
surgeon, 

^$010^1 Ithaca, a small rocky and 
mountainous island of the Ionian 
Sea; the home of Odysseus, B 632, 
r201. 

*lAixi^cos: Ithacan, 

Wl: imv. of c?/u come, go. Also as 
interjection, cf, £ye. 

Wfm, -arcs (cr/u) ; walk, gait^ step, 
E778. 

\0vvia^ impf. lOvvey (IMsi) i send 
straight at, direct, guide. 

tBv9 [cvAfs]: adv., with gen., straight, 
straight at. 

Hfvtt "vot: wuetf enterprise. 



iOvia, aor. iOvae : press forward, 
*lO<afn^ : in western Thessaly, on the 

slopes of Mt. Pindus, B 729. 
Lcavo): come, freq. with acc. of 'limit 

of motion.' Cf, iKvcofuu, i/coj. 
-iKopioi : Icarian, The Icarian Sea 

was part of the Aegean Sea, near 

the southwest part of Asia Minor, 

B145. 

?KcXo« (ftic-) 3 : like, resembling, 

'IiceracDV, -ovos: son of Laomedon, 
and so brother of Priam, V 147. 

iKficvos : favoring, favorable, s e c un- 
dus; const, with oi;/909* 

iKviofwjL and t/co>, fut. lio/mi, aor. 
iKCTO and T^€(v), aor. subjv. uc<iy 
fuu and ucryui come, arrive at, 
reach; freq. with acc. of 'limit of 
motion.' 

iXoSov (iXi/) : adv. in troops, in hat* 
talions, B 93. 

JX&opjoi : propitiate, worship, B 550. 

i\ao9 : propitious, kind, gentle, 

iXaxTKOfuu, aor. subjv. tXacrcrcai and 
iXao'o/ua'Oa i propitiate, appease, 

^IXios fem. (ftX-) : llios, capital of 
the Troad, named from its foun- 
der Ilus (son of Tros, and grand- 
father of Priam, Y 231 ff.). It 
is called wind-swept ("^vcfwea-au) 
and prosperous (ev votd/xcvov ttto- 
XieOpov), *IXcos is used for the 
* Troad 'in A 71. 

ifjJii, -dvTos : leather strap. 

ipaxra-ia, aor. I/uure, aor. subjv. I/iocr* 
ay : lash, beat, 

^IfJLPfXLoriSip I son of Imbrasus, Pe^ 
roiis, a Thracian leader, A 520. 

Ifuv [lemt] : inf. of c7fu go, 

tjfupo-a's, -ecrau: lovely, charming. 

Ifiepoi : longing, desire. 

ifupTOi: lovely, leautifulf B 751 

&a: adv. toAm. Conj. in order 
thatf thatf with subjv. or opt 



56 



VOCABULARY TO THB 



7m: aoc. of U strength^ might, 
iviw: nape of the neck^ neck-sinew. 
ZfiaXo9 : hounding^ leaping, A 105. 
tfc(v), tfioK: aor. of txcD come. 
t^taOax : fat. of iicKCOfuu come. 
to/icv subj v., loyrcs partic: of cTfU go. 
lo-pMtpoi (fuy) : shriekevj boaster, 
loi : arrow. Cf. ocaros. 
•09) la, dat. : one, Cf. cIs. 

each because of the other." 

lo-^iauLpa (ios» X^*^) * show- 
ers arrows), the archer goddess. 
£pithet of Aii;emis. 

&nrct09 : of the horses. 

Imrcvst '^oi : horseman, knight. (The 
Homeric heroes, however, did not 
ride, but drove in chariots.) Cf. 
iinroTa, ivTnfKdra. See Hipfm. 

hnr^qXAra (iXavvto) : Aeol. for iinnf- 
Aanys (horse-driver), knight. 

Imno-xouTTys (xp^Ttj) : of horse-hair, 
Z469. 

hnro-fioTo^ (jSoo-Koi) : horse-feeding. 
Epithet of Argos, as suited to the 
rearing of horses. 

hnroSofjuaa : Hippodamla, wife of 
the Lapith Pirithoiis, B 742. 

i9nro-&i/Aos (&i/ia(i>) : {horse-lamer, 
manager of horses), knight. 

hnro-Bdo'tUL (8aoi;s) : with thick crest 
of horse-hair. 

IthtoOoos: Pelasgian leader, B 840 ff. 

*7nro - Kopvani^ : horse - equipped, 
equipped with chariots. 

ImrokaxQi : son of Bellerophou and 
father of Glaucus, Z 119, 197. 

tmros : horse ; f req. fem. even when 
no attention is called to the sex. 
Horses drew by the yoke, without 
'traces.' Dual and pi., horses, horses 
and chariot, chariot (cf. the New 
England use of * team * for * wag- 
on), even men on chariots (B 554). 
The Homeric heroes did not ride 



on horseback, icaff imriay dl^am 
leaping hastily from their chariots. 

ivwoavyifj: horsemanship. 

Unrora [linrOTrp] : horseman, knight. 
Cf. hnrcvi, hnrqkdra. 

iinrovpis (ovpa tail) : unth horse-hair 
crest, crested, 

iVTO/iai, f ut r^enu, aor. t^iao : press 
hard, afflict, punish. 

Ipd : see i€p6v sacrifice. 

Ipeik: aee Upcv^ priest. 

^Ipisi Iris, the messenger of the 
gods in all matters pertaining to 
war, B 786. 

ipoi 3 : see tcpos sacred. 

IS, acclva (fk, vis): strength, might. 

ioov : impf . of J/u go. 

'IfravSpo^: son of Bellerophon, Z 197. 

laaaiv: 3d pL of o78a know. 

ur6-$€Oi : equal to the gods, god-like. 
Cf. 0€oeuc€Xo^, Ocoa^. 

?(ro9 (fur-) 3 : equal. Taov and Tcra 
cognate ace, adv., equally. 

l<ro-4>aLptCio (^^o«») : equed, vie with. 

lOTC . 2d pi. of o?8a know. 

Ttmjfu, aor. (i)(m]<ra, 2d aor. (i)<Trrf 
and oToy [^onyouv], 2d aor. subjv. 
anqif, aor. partic. aras, iterat. aor. 
ordxrKtv, perf. tarrjKa^, pi. perf. 
conyicao-iv or coroot, perf. inf. 
loroficv, perf. partic. iardora oi 
iaremu, plpf • conjica and cora- 
(Foy: pres. and 1st aor. act. tran- 
sitive, cause to stand, station, set, 
stop; other tenses and mid. in- 
transitive, take(my)position,stand, 
stop. Urrbv (rrqaavro hoisted the 
mast, Kprfrrjpa cmqaxurfiai (set up) 
offer a howl, dvrux larav they stood 
(rose) to meet him, dm larif stood 
up, rose. 

'loTioia : on the northwest coast oi 
Euboea, B 587. (Trisyllabic by 
^synizesis.*) 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



57 



IrrSoVf 1^. as sing. UrrSa, (mttos): 
sail. 

UTTO-SoKrf (Be^ofua): mast-receiver^ 
a rest for the mast when the lat- 
ter was lowered, A 434. 

lOTOs {larrffu): (1) mast (held in 
place by fore-stays (vporovoi). 
(2) Loom. iOTov iiroix^o^ go to 
and fro be/ore the loom, ply the 
loom. (The women stood to 
weave.) (3) Web. 
The Homeric loom was * an up- 
right framework, consisting of 
two perpendicular posts united at 
the top by a cross-bar. Fi*om this 
cross-bar, the threads of the warp 
were hung with weights. In 
weaving, one [say, the odd] set 
of threads, by means of a cross- 
stick (fcavctfv, * 760), was drawn 
forward with one hand toward 
the breast of the weaver, while 
with the other hand the woof- 
thread, by means of the KcpKi? 
or shuttle, was cast through 
the opening thus made between 
the [odd and even] threads of 
the warp. The weaver passed 
back and forth in front of the 
loom.' (Perrin's commentary on 
€62.) 

UTxavao) (t(rx<ii) r hold^ check, 
UrxjLOV. hip-Joint. 

il<rx<« (fx**) • hold, check, la-xeo check 
thyself, restrain thyself, halt ! 

iT€ imv., Irrfv impf . : of ctfu go. 

tTu?, -uos (fiT-) : felloe of a wheel. 

-It(i)v, -amy: : in Phthiotis, B 696. 

i<f>0lfjLO9 : strong, mighty, 

l'<l>L (ft^i, U) : adv. with might, 
strongly. 

'I<^iicAos: father of Protesilaiis, 
^ B705. 

i^co9 (f t^) : strong, goodly (of 
sheep). 



•^I^Tos : Phocian Argonaut, B 518. 
Z;(a)/9, acc. : ichor, which served 

the gods as blood, 
i^ao : aor. of tjrrofuu afflict, 
Imi : breath, blast, 
UoKi^i rout, confusion of battle. 
Uxvi partic. of etfu go. 

K. 

Kofi'PaXt : aor. of KaTafiaXXia. 

KayxaXdta: laugh aloud, in exulta- 
tion or in mockery. 

#ca8: for Kara down, by 'apocope* 
and * assimilation ' before 8. 

Ka8/ietbs and KoS/aciW, -<uvo9 : Cad- 
mean, of Cadmus; pi. Thebans. 

Kdeipa fem. : Cartan woman. 

Karf : aor. pass, of kolu) bum. 

KaJ^-uiTTOfJuai : address, approach. 

KaO-el^Ofuu, aor. Kaj9-€ia€v: sit down, 
sit; aor. act. seated. 

KaJ&-€vS(a: sleep. 

KoB^pm, imv. KoBrfcro : sit, am seated. 
Ka$-ii(M}, aor. imv. koButov: cause to 

sit down, seat; intrans. sit. 
KoB-virtpOf. adv. down from above, 

above. 

Ktd\ copulative conj., and, also, too, 
even, icat d even if kol is freq. 
joined with other particles, and 
is freq. correl. with t€, both . . . and. 
It sometimes marks the agree- 
ment of a specification with a 
foregoing general remark. It 
may be used where the Eng. idiom 
has or, as &a kol 8Jo one or two, 
rpLxOd T€ KOL rtrpaySa in three or 
four pieces. It is used freq. in 
the apodosis of conditional and 
temporal sentences. 

Kaivc]^9 : son of Caeneus, B 746. 

Kaivcv9, -^os : king of the Lapithae, 
A 264. 

KOLwpm, perf .partic. K€Kaa'p€v€, plpl 
as impf. {i)K€K(urro; excel. 



58 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



toalpiw (KoipSq) : (right spot), fatal, 
vital spot. 

KOLua, aor. Iici^a, aor. pass, icdrf: burn, 
consume by fire. 

iauc-K€tOKrc9 : fut. partic. of icara- 
KUfjuu lie down. 

itaxo-/nj^voi (jirfxp^)' contriving- 
evil, pernicious. 

KOKOv&nd pi. Koxa: ill, harm, calamity. 

Kaxos 3 : bad, evil, worthless, misera- 
ble, cowardly, destructive. 0pp. 

tooLKOTrfi '. worthlessness^ cowardice, 
wickedness, 

KarKTove [Karaxravc] : aor. imv. of 
KaraxTUvta kill, slay. 

icaxcos : adv. ill, miserably, harshly. 

KoXtiOj iterat. impf. icaXcco-fcc, fut. 
partic. Kokiowm, aor. subjv. m- 
kiaa-ia, aor. partic. KoXccmoia, aor. 
mid. (€)KaA.€(r(mroand KaXfuravro, 
perf. K€Kkrffuu, fut. perf. fcc/cXi/tny: 
call, summon, name. fccicXi/tn; ^oi- 
ri9 thou shalt be (called) wife. 

KaAi/o-tos: Thracian from Arisbe, 
Z18. 

KaAAuxpo9 : town in eastern Locris, 
B531. 

KoXkL-ywaiKa acc. : abounding in 

beautiful women.' 
KoXKi-Opii, -rpiyoi\ fair-maned, of 

horses. 

KoXXi-Trdfjyo^ (Tropcoi): fair-cheeked. 
KoX-XiTTc: aor. of xaraXctVo) leave 
behind. 

KaXXi-ppooi (pco)) : fair-flowing. 
KoAXurros : sup. of koXos beautiful. 
KoXKoi, -cos : beauty. 
fcaXoF and pi. xaXa: cognate acc, 

adv. well. 
KoXos 3 : beautiful, fair, noble. 
KaXv&m : islands near Cos, B 677. 
KjaXvS(ov, Hovos : ancient Aetolian 

town, famed for the Calydonian 

boar, B 640, 1 531. 



#caXvjrro), aor. (€)«caXv^e(v) : cover, 
wrap, ot ireirXoio irrvyfi cicoAv^cy 
held a fold of her robe as a cover- 
• ing (protection) for him. 

KaXxas, -avroq : Calchas, renowned 
seer of the Achaeans, who guided 
their ships to Ilios, A 69-100, 
B 300, 322-330. 

Koparos (Kopvia) : weariness. 

KoprPaXt [icar€)3a\e] : aor. of Kara- 
jSaXXcD throw down, let fall. 

Kopjt : aor. of Kdpvm weary, work. 

K^tpos: one of the three chief 
cities of Rhodes, B 656. 

Ka/iyo), fut. KopjeiTOJL, aor. (l)Kapm, 
perf. K€KpifKa^, perf. partic. jcc- 
Kprfiri : labor, am weary (freq. 
with acc. of the wearied part, and 
ofte^ with partic), make with toU. 
KopjSyrc^ who became weary, euphe- 
mism for 6av6vT€^ the dead. 

Kopimo, aor. subjv. KopAlrg: bend. 

Ko/ATTvAos: bent, curved. 

Kav : for Kara down, along, by * apo- 
cope ' and * assimilation * before ir. 

Ka7ravev9, -709: Capaneus, one of 
the *Seven against Thebes,* B 564, 
A 404 ft., father of Sthenelus. 
He boasted that he would take 
Thebes, even though opposed by 
the thunderbolt of Zeus. 

KairavYfid&fii and Kairavqio^ vto?: 
son of Capaneus, Sthenelus, A 367, 
E 108 f. 

Kawvliw, aor. Koirwaav (imirm): 
kindle fires. 

Kairvo^: smoke. 

Koarpoi : boar, wild boar. 

KaTr-ma-ov [xarcirccrov] : aor. of icam- 
irnrro) fall dotvn. 

Kip, gen. Ka/oos : Carian, B 867. 

Kap&Cri or Kpa&iYf (cor): heart, as 
seat of will, affections, and pas- 
sions. - 

Kofyri, gen. Kparo^, dat. Kpari: head. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



59 



KiSfrrf KOfju6wT€s I long-haircd, Freq. 

epithet of Achaeans. 
KopTfva pi. : headsj summits, citadels. 
KOfywaXifJuto^ : adv. quickly^ in haste, 
Kopiroi : fruit, cropy grain, 
Kopiroii wrist. 

Kop-pel^ovan : partic. of KaTopl^m 
caress. 

Kafyr€f}6-$vfwq : stout-hearted. 
Koprepo^ (icapros) : strong, mighty. 

See KfKLT€pOi. 

Kofyrurros: most mighty, stoutest, hard- 
est. 

Kapvaro^: Carystus, town on the 
south coast of Euboea, B 539. 

Kouriryvj^Trj : own sister. 

KaxrCyvrfroi (koo-is) : own brother. 

Kiuros : one of the Sporades, near 
Cos, B 676. 

Kaorrop, -opoc : Castor, son of Leda, 
and brother of Helen, T 237. 

Kara: adv. and prep., down, with 
acc. and gen. Karh Bdxpv \€ov<m 
{pouring down) shedding a tear, 
Kara S opKia Trdrrfoav trampled 
(down) upon the oaths, koS 8* lOope 
leaped down, Karh firjpC licqa. burned 
(down. Eng. up) the thigh-pieces, 
KoS 8c AiTTOirc ye would leave be- 
hind; K€S(ur$€VT€s Kara vtjas dis- 
persed (down) along the ships, lov 
Kara irovrov coming over the sea, 
8aiyvp.fvov9 Kara 8a)/xa feasting 
through the house, lOi Kara Xaov go 
through the army, Kara arparov 
down through the camp, in the camp, 
opposite the camp, Kara fwipav in 
due measure, fitly, Kara ^pcm in 
mind, vu$€ Kara wfwv wounded him 
on the shoulder; Kar o^aXp/av 
down over his eyes, Kara x^okos 
upon the ground below, Koff linrtav 
down from his chariot. 

fcara-jSatVd), aor. KarejSi/o'cro, aor. 
inf. Karafi^vai: come down, descend. 



Kara-PaXKua, aor. KopfiaXi: cast 

dowHf let fall, 
Kar-dynh aor. inf. KamitpMvi lead 

(down) back to the ships. 
KaraSvio, aor. xarcSvo-ero or KaWSv, 

aor. partic. /caraSvrra : go down, 

set(ot the sun ), enter, put on armor. 
KaTa-OvrjTO^ : mortal. 
fcara-fcotoi, aor. KariKrfi: burn (down)^ 

consume by fire. 
KarorKupai, tut. partic. KaKKiCovrts ; 

lie down. 

Kara-KOipaui, aor. inf. KaraKotpifirj' 
vol : pass, lie down to rest. 

Kara-KO(TpAia I arrange (lay down) 
properly. 

Kara-Krtivia, f ut. KaroicTavcovo-iv, aor. 
KaT€KTav€ and KartKra, aor. inf. 
KaraKTopjsvaJL, aor. imv. Kcucravc, 
aor. pass. KariKToJSey [KartKraOrf 
crav] : slay, kill. 

jcara-XctTTQ), aor. KaXXtirt: leave be- 
hind. 

fcara-Xvo), aor. icarcXvo-c : overthrow, 
destroy. 

KaTa-pafmrm, aor. subjv. Karapap^i 
overtake. 

KaT-apAxra-ta, aor. KarapviaTo: scratchy 

tear, E 425. 
KaroryevQ), fut. fcararcvVofuu, aor. 

imv. KaroKCvo-OK : nod assent, esp. 

in confirmation of a promise. 

Opposed to omvcvco. 
#caTa-7r«r<r(i), aor. subjv. icaraTrc^: 

digest, suppress, A 81. 
KaTa-ir€<f>vrf : subjv. of idkriirt^vav 

slay, kill. 
Kara-m/jyvvpi, aor. Karimff^ev: fix, 

stick. 

Kara-iriirrta, aor. KaTnr€(rcv'<. fall down, 
Kara-irX-qaa'to, aor. pass. KaTtTrkqyrf* 

(strike down), fill with dismay. 
Kara-^wr&fa : crouch down, cower, 
Kara-pil^ta or Koppil^ia, Bor. Karip^a^x 

caress^ stroke. 



60 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



Mxra-ppco) : fiow down, 
Kara-axofievrj : wrapping herself^ 

wrapt, aor. partic. of Karfx^o hold 

down, envelop. 
mra-rtOrffu, aor. KoriBriKt and icare- 

B€VTo : lay down, set down, 
KaTa-ifniXa^ov (^vXoi^) : by tribes, 

Ba68. 

fcara-xco^ aor. Kare^cvav: pour down, 

shower, let faU, 
tcai^Prfa-ero : went back, aor. of 

KaraPalvia go down. 
KOLT-iSv and KareSvcrcro : aor. of 

icaraSvo) down, enter. 
KarUSo) : eat up, consume, gnaw. 
KaT'iBtvTO and Kar€^ice(v) : aor. of 

KaTarC&qiu lay down. 
Kar-eifMA, partic. Karunkm: come down. 
Kar-hcqt : aor. of fcarax(uci> bum. 
Kar-licra and Karcicravc act., Karc- 

ktojBcv pass. : aor. of fcaraicrciVa) 

slay. 

KOLT-eXBifuv : aor. inf. of Karipypiiai 

come dmon. 
KaT-eveva-ev : aor. of Karavcvo) nod. 
KaT4ir€<f>vov, subjv. icarairii^vri'. aor. 

slew. 

Kar-cm/f €v : aor. of fcarain/ywfu ^a; 

down, fix. 
Kar^X.'ijyrf : aor. pass, of KaTairX-qa-- 

(TO) with dismay. 
Kar-epetina, aor. Kanjpifl-c : tear down, 

aor. intrans.^cW. 
xar-cpc^ev : aor. of Karopc^^o) caress. 
Kar-€pvK<»i : 6ac^, detain. 
KaTHpxofiM, aor. inf. xarcX^c/uicv : 

fcar-co^to) : devour, eat up. 
Kar-ewdl^ia, aor. pass. /carciWcrtfcv 
[icarcvmirft/crav] : pass, /ie down. 
KaT-€)(€vay: aor. of Karaxcoi />OMr 

tuiT-€xu}, aor. partic. Karaxrxpyihrq : 
hold down, possess; mid. partic. 
wrapping herself, wrapt. 



Kar^vOov : aor. of Karipxppai come 
down. 

Kar-Tpnato, impf . ican/iruWro (tit*- 

os) : soothe, still, quiet. 
KaT-i/ptirc: fell, aor. of Kartp^iirta 

tear down. 
KaT'rf(T$u : aor. of KartuOim devour. 
Ka'rq{l>€{rj : shame, disgrace. 
Kar-unkra : fern, partic. of Karupx go 

doton. 

KarnxTx^i mid. keep for {thy)self 

Kavpa, -aro9 (kcuo)) : burning heat. 
Kovparo^ €$ out of (in consequence 
of) the heat. 

KowTTtipa (^Koifo): iem. »dj. burning, 
scorching, A 342. 

KavoTpio9 : a river in Asia Minor 
which empties into the sea near 
Ephesus, B 461. 

Kavros : by crasis (rare in Homer) 
for #cai avros thyself too. 

[Kaffy- or tcair-'] perf. partic. KCfca- 
ifnjOTa : breathe out, gasp. 

Kc(v) : enclitic particle, modal adv.; 
essentially eqoiv. to av, indicating 
a condition. k€v is about four 
times as freq. as ofv, and is pre- 
ferred esp. in affirmative sen- 
tences. See av. 

KcaSi/s : son of Ceas, Troezenus, a 
Thracian, B 847. 

(a-^Kt^avvvfu, aor. efceSourcre, aor. 
pass, partic. Kc&urOems: scatter^ 
shatter. 

Ku-Oi : adv. there. 

KupjojL, impf. (t)K€iro : lie. 

Ktip-qkim {Kupai): treasure stored 

K€iv<K [cKcivos] 3 : that one, that, he. 
Kctvos [kcvos] 3: empty. 
KCi-o-c : adv. thither. 
fccfcaWro: aor. of x^^f^ draw, 
back. 

K€Kaj(Tp€v€ : excellent, perf. partic. of 
K/uwpw. excel. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



61 



K€Ka<f>rj6Ta : perf . partic. breathe out, 
gasp. 

KCfcXcro : aor. of KeXo/uuu call, bid. 

KCfcXi/ycos : perf. pai*tic., as pres., of 
icA^o) shriek, yell, shout. 

K€KXrffJiM perf., KeKXTjay fut. perf. : 
pass, of KoXecD call. 

k€k\vt€ : aor. of kAvcd hear. 

K€KfirjKas ind., KeKfjLrfiri partic. : 
perf. of Kofim am weary. 

K€Kopv$fiL€vo^: helmeted, pointed, peif. 
partic. of Kopwram equip with hel- 
met. 

KfXax-vtifiT^, -€S (ve<^09) : in dark 
clouds, cloud-torapt (of Zeus), 
dark. 

KcAotvos 3 : dark, black. 
Ke\cv^os, pi. iccXcv^ : way, path. 
KcXcvdi, fut. KcXcvcra), aor. CKcXcvcra : 

bid, command, order; with dat. or 

acc. 

KfXofMM, aor. {i)K€KX€To : bid, order, 

urge ; freq. with dat. 
KCKcos : empty^'handed). See Kcevo9. 
Kcvccov, -cuvos : flank. 
K€yTp-rp^€K^, -€s : goaded on, spurred 

on, 

KfVT<ap, -opos: (goader), driver of 

horses. Cf. irXi7^t?nro9, tmn^Aarti, 

I?nro8afu>s. 
Kcpoffo) : lay waste, slay. 
k€pafws: earthen-ware, jar. 
[Ktpawvpx] pres. subjv. mid. Kipujv- 

T€u: mix. 
K^paxyiooi i(€o>): (horn-polishing), 

botD-maker, A 110. 
Kcpoos: homed, 

K€paq, -oos, pi. K€pa (cornu): horn. 

fC€p8aA.c(>-<^p(i>v (<f>p'qv) : cunning- 
minded, crafty. 

KepSujv : better, more advantageous, 
'K€p8urroi : most cunning, Z 153. 

Kcprofjiita : mock, revile. 

KtpTopm: mocking, cutting; as 
subst.. revUina words. 



K€v9dvii> and k€v$<o : conceal, hide, 

K€tl>akrj: head, stature, orvv KtifMr 
Xym " with their lives." 

Kc^oAX^cs : the subjects of Odys- 
seus, B 631, A 329 ft. 

KcxpLpouiTo: aor. opt. of x<u/>(» rejoice. 

KcxoXoKrcat : wilt be angry, fut. perf. 
pass, of xoXoct) anger. 

K€xvTo : plpf . of x€ci> pour. 

KvjBo^, -€os : grief, sorrow, woe. 

K^do) : distress, cause grief to ; mid. 
grieve, care for, with geu. 

KrjXov: arrow. 

Kiqp, gen. Krjpo^i fate, death. 

Krjp, gen. Krjpo^', heart, as seat of 
emotions. For the periphrasis IIv- 
Xaifi€v€o^ Xaxriov Krjp " the shaggy- 
hearted Pylaemenes," see fiirj. 

KrjpivOos on the coast of Euboea, 
B538. 

Krjpvi, -vKos: herakl; the only offi- 
cial attendant of the king. 

KTfpvaa-io: proclaim, call by procla- 
mation. 

lOfnataaa: abounding in ravines. 

Epithet of Lacedaemon, B 581. 
Ki;<^Icr6$, -iSo9 : Cephisian. Ki^^to-is 

Xlpvrf the later Lake Copais in 

Boeotia, E 709. 
Ki7<^o-os : Cephlsus. Phocian river 

which empties into Lake Copais, 

B522. 
foycoS)/?, -es : fragrant, 
Kv)ia-us, -CO-CO, -cv : fragrant. 
Kt&apis, -tos : cithara, lyre. Cf. iffop 

pAy$. (Xv^xL is not Homeric.) 
KiBapurTv%, -vos : playing on the lyre, 

skill with the lyre, B 600. 
KUfXi^Kia (koXcq)) : call, summon, 

namci 

KiKOKCs pi. : a people on the south 
coast of Thrace, B 846, i 39 ff. 

KxXtKC9 pi. : Cilicians. . In Homer's 
time they lived in Greater Phry- 
gia near Troy, in two nations. 



62 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



One king, Eetion, Andromache^s 
father, reigned at Theba, Z 396 ft.; 
another, Mynes, at Lyrnessus, 
B690fF. 

KiXAa: small town near Troy, A 38. 

KivecD, aor. subjv. kIvi^, aor. pass. 
Kivrfiri', move, drive; pass, move 
(him)9elf, go. 

Ktwiuu : intrans. move. 

Kuw : impf . of Ktta go. 

Ktavrfk, -c8o9: daughter of Cisses 
(a Thracian), Theano, wife of 
Antenor, Z 299. 

KiX&m, int. KiXTCccrAu, aor. Kixif- 
aaro, aor. subjv. Kixut^ aor. par- 
tic. Ki)(Tifijeifoy : ^ncf, come to, over- 
take, 

kCw, partic. Kitay, impf. ici€(v) : go. 
xXayyq : clang, twang, clamor. 
KXayytf-iav: adv. with loud cries, 
B 463. 

KXaito, aor. IxXay^, perf . partic. 

as pres. K€K\ifym : shriek, shout, 

yeU, ring. 
kXcuo) : weep, wail, 
xXciTos (xXcos) 3 : famed, renowned, 

illustrious. 
icXeos, -cos : fame, glory, report 
icXcTmys : thief, F 11. 
icXenrcD, aor. IkXc^: steal, am 

stealthy, am deceitful. 
KXcoyim pi. : Cleonae, in Argolis, 

not far from Corinth, B 570. 
icXrjU, -i8os (clavis): key, collar^ 

bone, * 
KXSjpo^: lot. 

fcAtvco, aor. iK\lvav, perf. partic. kc- 
xXtfiLcm, aor. pass. ixXlvOrj : lean, 
turn aside, put to flight; pass, lean 
aside (or hack), rest. iccxXificm 
Xlforg living next (on) the lake. 

scXjuriTf : hut, barrack, tent. 

icWiiT-tfcv: from the tent. 

fcXco-ii/v-Sc : to the tent. 

kAwcq) : drive in tumult. 



KXonos : a Boeotian leader, B 49S^ 
O340. 

kXovos : tumult, confusion. 

k\v$i : aor. imv. of icXvco hear. 

KXvfKn;: attendant of Helen, F 144. 

KXvroLfivqfTTpa : wife of Agamem- 
non. Acc. to the later story, she 
was daughter of Tyndareiis and 
Leda, and sister of Helen. Dur- 
ing Agamemnon's absence she 
proved unfaithful to him, and 
(with her paramour, Aegisthus) 
slew him on his return to 
Greece. 

KXvrios: C%ttu9, brother of Priam, 
ri47. 

jcXvro-TroAos : with famed horses. 

Epithet of Hades, E 654. 
jcXvros (inclutus, jcXvu): famed, 

glorious. 
xXtm)-TCYV)7S : of glorious art. 
icXvro-Totbs : of renowned bow. 
tcXvia, aor. {icXve, imv. kXvOi, icXvrc, 

and jcocXure: he<xr, give ^ar to my 

request. 
Kkwfuutoecrm: rocky, B 729. 
Kvc^s, -aos : darkness of evening. 
KirqfMi: shin-bone. 

Kirtffdi, -t&s: greave, a bent thin 
plate of metal which protected 
the lower part of the leg. It was 
fastened at the ankle by hooks or 
buckles (cTTur^vpca). The greave 
seems to be one of the most char« 
acteristic parts of the armor of 
the Achaeans, for they are called 
ivKvrffuSeq *AxaiOi. See $iapfrj( 




nrrffiKi glen. 

KAfrq. savor of burnt offering8,/it 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



63 



Kvwroi : Cnosus, chief city of Crete, 
B 646, S 591. 

KocXos or KocAos 3 : hollow, 

Koifumf aor. Koifiijmivro : lay to rest; 
mid. lie ; aor. lay douon to rest, 

Koipaytta : command, rule, 

Koepavos : a Lycian, E 677. 

Kolpavoq : lord, ruler. 

KoXcov: for kovX,€ov sheath, 

KoWtiris : well-joined, well-built, 

fcoA.iro9 : bosom, gulf. 

KoXxodja : scold, brawl, B 212. 

KoXjivrf : hill, height. 

KoAows : brawling, quarrel. 

KOfiato (KofMf) : have long hair, Kopi/f 
KOftooynrcs long-haired, onriOtv ko^ 
/ijiwvT€^ with long back hair (the 
front hair being cut short). 

Ko/ATf: hair. 

KOfiiita, aor. (i)K6fJMr<r€, aor. imv. 
KOfJMrai: attend to, care for, take 
up, 

Kompiia and Kova^CCia, aor. Kovafitf- 

crav: resound, ring. 
Konrj: dust, 

KoutauKfys : cloud of dust, eddy of dust. 

Kifuv^ i Corinth, B 570. The old 
name of Corinth was Ephyra. 

Kofxrrfi temple of the head. 

Kopv&<ivo\oi : crest-waving, gleaming- 
crested. Epithet of Hector. 

«dpv9, -vOoi : helmet. ^ '>s. 

See ^p^. f 

Kopwraio, perf. par-| | 
tic K€KopvdfUvo9:\ I 
equip with helmet, Y^^jSL^'^ [ 
equip, rouse to I Ta^S^ I 
conflict ; mid. UViA^ 
equip myself, rouse ir 
myself. KtKopvB- 
fici/o9 X(xXk<^ equipped with bronze, 
bronze-helmeted, brome-pointed. 

KOffwmq^ helmeted, armed. 

Kopvffnj : summit, crest. 

Kopw^oo§tm : am created, tower, A 426. 



Kopcdveia: CoronSa, a Boeotian town, 
southwest of Lake Copiis, B 503. 

Kopunrq : hook, at the end of the bow, 
for the bow string. 

Kopwvk, -tiSo9 : curved, of the ships 
with curving bow and stern. (See 

K6p<twoq : a Lapith, B 746. 
KoapAio, aor. Koajjurja^^v), aor, pass. 

Koa-firfitv liKOO'iJLiqOriauv']: arrange 

in order, draw up (in line), mar^ 

shal, Equiv. to Att. rafffna. 
KwrprfTiup, -op09 (KOfTpAia) : marshal, 

commander, 
Koa-fw^ : order, orderly arrangement, 

decoration, Kara Kotrpm fitly. 
KOT€io, aor. subjv. Koriaaenu: am 

angry, feel sullen anger. 
Kony-as, -ccrcra : angry. 
K&roi : anger, grudge, hate. 
KOTvXrfi {cup), hip-Joint. 
KovXtov or KoXfov : sheath. 
Kovprf iKopq] : maiden, girl, daughter, 
KovpiSuK 3 : wedded. 
Kovpoi [Kopos] : youth, young man. 

With Koivpoi 'Axaioiv youths of the 

Achaeans, cf vies *Axajuav. 
Kovporepo^ : younger, stronger. 
Koa>9 : see Kq>s Cos. 
KpaK-q : see KopSCq heart, 
Kpduuvw, aor. imv. Kp-qrpfov: accomr 

plish, perform, fulfil, 
KfxuTTvo^: swift, 
KpoMTvd : acc. adv. swiftly. 
Kpavdrj: an island ta which Paris 

took Helen from Sparta, F 445. 
KfMvaos 3 : rugged, rocky. 
KpaTra^os: Carpathus, an island 

between Crete and Rhodes, B 676. 
Kpanuo^ (icparos) 3 : mighty, 
Kpartpoi or Kaprepo^ : strong, mighty, 

stem, grievous. Comp. Kpwtrm^ 

sup. Koprurroi. 
'Kparep-ww^, -vxps (pw$)' strong* 

hoofed. 



64 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



Kpariw : hold sway, nde, 
Kpdros, -cos : strength, might, mctory, 
Kparos : gen. of icaprf head, 
icpwt -aros, pi. Kpia: meat, flesh. 
KpwfTiav, -w (Kparc/K>s): stronger, 

more mighty, superior. 
Kfi€iiay, -orros : ruler, prince, king. 
Kpi/yvos: good, favorable, A 106. 
Kprfj/jfyovi aor. imy. of Kpauuyio ful- 

ft 

KfrqOiay, -wvoi : a Messenian, E 542. 

Kpfipn/fi spring, fountain. 

KprfTts pi. : Cretans, B 645. 

Kf^ijTri: Crete, B 649. 

Kfnrnficv: from Crete, T 233. 

Kprfn^p, -^/Dos (K€pdvyvfu): mixing- 
bowl, bowl, in which the wine was 
mixed with water, before it was 
served. 

Kfii [Kpt^] : indecl. barley. 

Kfiim, aor. tKplv€v\ separate, set 
apart, select, arrange, interpret; 
mid. measure strength. 

Kpura : ancient town in Phocis, near 
Delphi, B 520. 

Kpoaivta: clatter. 

KpoKjSK€ui pi. : on Ithaca, B 633. 
Kpoia&/9 and Kpoiiwv, -covos : son of 

Cronus, Zeus. 
Kpdvos : Cronus, Satnrnns; 

father of 2ieus, Poseidon, Hades, 

and Hera. 
Kpona^os : temple of the head. 
Kpowo^ : spring, water-source. 
Kpv6-€ii, -€0X70, -€v: chUHng, 
jcpvTrra&os (jcpvuTw) 3 : secret. Kpv- 

irro&a secret plans. 
Kpa>/Am : Paphlagonian town, B 855. 
KrofLcvou. inf., Kraye ind. : aor. of 

KTciW slay. 
KTmp, dat. pi. KTeartaatv: "pl. prop- 
erty, possessions. 
Kt«itos : an Ep€an, B 621, A 709. 
KTCivctf, aor. subjv. KrtCvgst aor. 

(I)#crave(v) and {icra, aor. mid. as 



pass, fcrafievos : slay, Idll. Rarely 
used of killing beasts. 

Krrjiio, -aro9 (icnSopm) : possession, 
treasure. Cf. icriap, icr^o-is. 

KTrjat^, -tos: property. 

ktlXos: ram. 

Kvdveoi : dart blue, dark. 

KvSaam (jcvSos) : glorify, make mag- 
nificent. 

KvSdXifW^ : renowned, glorious. 

icv&-avcipa (dn;p) : man-ennobling. 

KvStdjio: glory, boast. 

Kv&oTos 3 : most glorious. 

fcv&Nfuk: tumult. 

-COS : flf^ory, splendor. 

KVKaw : stir, mix. 

KiNcXapl. (kvicXos): wheels. 

KVicXoa-e : round about. 

fcvKAo-TCfn/S) -€s : circular. icvicXorc- 
pes Toiov h'€iv€v he stretched the 
bow until it became round. 

KVKvos (cygnus) : swan. 

KVKowvTi : partic. of jcuKaoi stir. 

KvAXiyvjy: Cylltne, a lofty moun- 
tain in northern Arcadia, B 603. 

fcv/ia, -aros : wave, billow. 

Kvpfiaxoi: adj. head foremost. 

Kwerf (kvow) : dog-skin (cap), cap, 
helmet. 

KtSveaxrtv : dat. pi. of kvojv dog. 
Kwiio, aor. jcvo-c : kiss. 
Kwos : the harbor of Opus, B 531 . 
KviMamL TOC. A 159 and jcuKonrts, -iSos 

fem. (*5^) : dog-faced, shameless. 
KvTrapurai/eis, -cvros : town under 

Nestor's rule, B 593. 
Kmrapuroos : Phocian town, B 519. 
KvVeXXov: beaker, cup, goblet. Cf 

8c7ras* 

KvVpiS) h8o$: Cypris, of Cyprus. 

By-name of Aphrodite, E 422. 
fcuvTo), aor. partic. icv^m : stoop. 
KvpfjLOL, -aros : prey, booty, spoil. 
lApin, aor. partic. icvpaas: chance 

upon, fall in with, find. 



FIBST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



65 



Kvpro^ : roundedf bending. 
KWT€ : aor. of kvvco) kiss. 
KvoTiSj -ios : bladder. 
KvVcopo?: a Paphlagonian town, 
B853. 

KvifHK : city in northern Thessaly, 
B748. 

KtrnVf gen. icwo9, dat. pi. fcvvco-crcv: 
dogy hound. Dogs were the sca- 
vengers of the camp and the city, 
and often preyed on the bodies 
of the slain. They were to the 
oriental mind the personification 
of shamelessness. 

KSmai pi. : town on the north of 
Lake Copais in Boeotia, B 502. 

KiUnrrf: hilt. 

Km or Kdciis : Cosj an island in the 
Icarian Sea, near Caria, B 677. 

A. 

Aaas : an old city in Laconia, B 585. 

Xaas, dat. pi. Xoecrcre : stone. 

Xdpey XaPirrjiv: aor. of Xafji,pav<o 
take, seize. 

XdPpoq : violent, impetuous, 

Xay\avio, aor. Aaxo/icv: receive by lot, 
receive as my portion. 

Aa€fynd&ij9 : son of Laertes, Odys- 
seus, r 200. 

Xatofjua (^XafxPdyw) : seize, take. 

XaOpg {Xav&dvia) : secretly. 

XdBtofua: forget, aor. snbjy. of 
XavOdvto. 

XaxXxul/, -nwoi : tempest. 

Xoivos (Aaas) : of stone. 

Aaun^iov: target, light shield. It is 
called irrcpoev winged, as lighter 
than the dcnns. Prob. it had no 
outer layer of metal, but was of 
rough leather. 

XoKeSaifuay, -cvoi : Lacedaemon. It 
is called icotXi; hollow, as forming 
a basin between Mt. Taj^getus 
and Mt. Pamon. 



Xofipdm, aor. 2(A)Aaj3c and AajSc : 

accept, take, seize. 
XafMrtrdtih partic. Aafiircr<Wrc (Xof/r 

TTwi) : shine, gleam, A 104. 
AofiTros : brother of Priam, F 147. 
Xafnrfw (Aafi7rci>) 3 : bright, shining, 

Xa/iTTpov brightly, neut. adv. 
XofMrta: shine, gleam, flash, 
XavOdvQ), aor. Xdffcy, redupl. aor. 

keXdj9ovTo, perf. AeAoonu (Ai;^) : 

escape notice; mid. forget. 
Xd£ : adv. with the foot. Cf. nvi. 
AaoSdfJueia: daughter of Bellero- 

phon ; slain by Artemis, Z 197 ft. 
AdoSticrf : daughter of Priam, F 124, 

Z252. 

AaoSoKos : son of Antenor, A 87. 
Adofu^ovnd&tf^ : son of Laomedon, 

Priam, F 250. 
AdofUStav, -cvroii Laomedon, king 

of Troy, father of Priam, E 269. 
Aaos : people, folk, es^. fighting men. 

The pi. is used like the sing. 
Xairdprrfi flank (below the ribs). 
Aopioa: Pelasgian town in ^eolis 

near Cyme, B 841. 
Aao-cos 3 : shaggy. 

Xdxyri : wool, woolly hair, of the hair 

of Thersites, B 219. 
Aaxny^is, -cvros : hairy, shaggy. 
Aa^oficv : aor. of Xayxdyio receive oj 

my portion. 
Aeyo), aor. inf. AcfourAu, aor. pass. 

iXexOrp^i collect, count, recount, 

rehearse. Acyofuu, fut. Aefcrot 

lay myself to rest, lie. 
AeiotvcD, aor. partic. Xa-qvas : smooth, 

polish. 
ActJScD : pour a libaiion. 
kufitav, Hovos : meadow, mead. 
XeuK 3 : smooth. 
Aciovcre : dat. pi. of Xttav lion. 
AciVcD, aor. (2)AMrov, perf. AcAocrrcv, 

plpf . cAcAceirro : leave, depart from, 

leave behind; mid. remain behind. 



66 VOCABULABY TO THE 



Accpco-ccS) -€axra : lily-like, lily, (i.e, 
delicate as the color of the lily). 

XxXaBovro aor., XeXaoroi perf . : for- 
get, mid. of XavOaim escape notice. 

\€\Lrffjm : am eager, ktXirifum 
eagerly, impetuously. 

XikoLirtv : perf. of Xmna leave. 

AcoKTcus, -^jo^ : one of the Lapithae ; 
a Thessalian leader, B 745. 

Aciro&a pi. : Iroad straps which 
passed under the necks of the 
horses and held fast the yoke. 

Xciro), aor. HXeij/e: (peel), strip, 
A 236. 

AcvKos: companion of Odysseus, 
A 491. 

AcvKos (lux, look) 3: white, bright, 

gleaming. 
XcvK-Q>Xcvo9 (<uX(V);, ulna, ell) : 

white armed. Epithet of Hera. (In 

the Homeric dress, the woman's 

arms were bare.) 
XcvcrcrcD (Xcvkos) : see, look, behold. 
\€y€-Troiqv acc. : grassy, in the midst 

of meadows, 
kexpi, dat. |d. Xcxcco-o-cv : couch, bed. 
Xcxoo--8c : to the bed. 
XcW, -OIT09, dat. pL XctWrcv: lion. 
Xi^yo), aor. Xyj(av : cease, cease from, 

give up. 

Xyfiri (Lethe): forgetfulness, B 33. 
A^^ : a Pelasgian, B 843. 
XijOta: equiv. to XavOayta, escape 

notice; mid. forget. 
XrjXov: standing grain. 
AiyiVos : Boeotian leader, B 494. 
Aijfivo^ : island in northern part of 

the Aegaean Sea, A 593, B 722. 
\rj(av : aor. of Xi/yo) cease. 
ArjTvi, Ai^rovs : Leto, L a t o n a, 

mother of Apollo and Artemis, 

A 9, E 447. 
hdiofua, aor. partic. XwxrOek : turn 

aside, withdraw one'*s self. 
Xtycciis (Xtyvs) : adv. clearly. 



Xiy^c aor. : sung, of a bow. 
Xiyvpos 3 : shrill, piping. 
Xiyus, -€ta, -u : clear-voiced. 
Xtyv-^oyyos: clear-voiced. 
Xiriv: adv. exceedingly, excessively 

Kot Xlriv and in truth, and verily. 
XlOos: stone. 
XiK/um : winnow, E 500. 
AtKVfMw : uncle of Heracles, slain 

by Tlepolemus, B 663. 
AAoca: town in Phocis, at the 

source of the Cephisus, B 523. 
XiXmofua : desire, am eager for, 
XLfMfjv, -€w : harbor. 
XifAvrj: lake, 

AivSos : town on Rhodes, B 656. 
Xxvo-O<ofnfi, -TfKOi : with linen doublet, 
Xivov (linen) : (Jlax, thread), net. 
XiTTopos 3 : (oily), shiny, bright, beau- 
tiful. 

Xi9rc(v), XiTTCcrAu: aor. of XctTro) 
leave. 

kCofrofua, impf. (IX)XiWcro, aor. 
imv. XtVou (litany) : entreat, be- 
seech. 

Xotfirj (XcijSci)) : libation, drink-offer- 
ing. Cf. airovdfj^. 

Xotyi09 : dreadful, hurtful. 

Xoiyos : destruction, ruin, death, 

Xoi/ios: pestilence, plague, A 61. 

AoKpoC pi. : Locrians, B 527. 

XovQ), aor. Xovo-cv or Xoecrcv, perf. 
mid. XcXovfievo^ : wash, bathe, mid. 
bathe one's self. 

Xo^os: crest of helmet; generally 
made of horse-hair. See $utfnf$. 

koxoi (Xe;(os) : place of ambush, am- 
bush. 

XoxovSe : to an ambuscade. 
Xvypos (1 ug e o) : miserable, dreary, 

death4f ringing, 
kvypm : grievously, E 763. 
\v6if : aor. pass, of Xwa loose, 
Xvdpov: gore. 

AvKoxTTOi : Cretan town, B 647. 



FIKST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



67 



\uKa(uv: (1) son of Priain, T 333. 
(2) A Lycian, father of Pandarus, 
B 826. 

XuKi^-ycviys, -€os : epithet of Apollo, 
prob. 'child of the light ^ (lux), 
A 101. 

AvKirj: Lycia, (1) On the south 
coast of Asia Minor, between 
Caria and Pamphylia, B 877. 
(2) A district near Troy, E 173. 

XvKirf^ev : from Lycia, 

AvKirp^i to Lycia, 

AvKUM,: Lycians, commanded by 
Sarpedon, B 876. 

AvK09 (lupus): wolf. 

AvKoopyoii king of the Thracian 
Edonians, Z 130 ft. 

AvKTo^ : Cretan town, B 647. 

XvfMf -aros : Jilth, defilement, 

Avpyrfo-aoi : town in the Troad, not 
far from Theba, B 690. 

XviOy fut. Xvcro), aor. (l)Avaa, perf . 
XeXvvroi, aor. pass. XvOt^: loose, 
free, dismiss; mid. loose for my- 
self , ransom. 

Xtopdofjuai, aor. opt. XiaPi^amo: tti- 
siUt, am insolent. 

XmPni : shame, disgrace. 

XiaPrfrqp, -rjpoi : insolent fellow. 

A<iu(tfv, -oy: more desirable, better^ 
comp. of dya^os. 

Xanros : clover, food for horses, B 776. 

M. 

fu& (/iav, fMfv) : particle of assevera- 
tion, with the accusative, which 
probably depends on a verb of 
swearing implied. In afi&rmative 
asseverations vat /la is used, ov 
fi^ yap *A7roAAa>va no, by Apollo! 
yoi pa ToSc (TKrprrpov yes I by this 
sceptre. 

Mayn^cs pi. : Thessalians dwelling 

near Mt. Pelion, B 756. 
pa^oi : nipple, breast. 



pjoBov : aor. of pavOdvio learn. 
Ma£av8po9: river near Miletus^ 
B869. 

pojLpjoM, aor. palprpt : am eager, am 

impetuous, rage. 
pmvopoL (mania): rave, rage, am 

frantic. 

Mcutov : a Theban, son of Haemon, 

A 394 ft. 
poKop, -apoi : blessed, happy. 
poKpos 3: long, high, tall. poKpd 

and pjoxpov adv. paKpa fiipds 

with long strides, poKpov avo-cv 

shouted afar, i.e. shouted cdoud. 
paXa adv. : exceedingly, very, readily, 

thoroughly, by all means. dXAA 

pjdXoL but surely. 
pa^Xov comp. : more, rather. 
pAKurra sup. : especially, most of alL 
puaXoKO^ 3 : soft, gentle, 
pu&v [ftiyv] : in truth, indeed. 
pjoLvOdvia, aor. paBov : learn. 
pjoLVTCvopm : am a seer, prophesy, pre* 

diet. 

MoLVTiverj : Arcadian town, B 607. 
pdvTi^ : seer, soothsayer. 
pjovTotrvvq : gift of prophecy. 
papyoAVio : rage, am furious, E 882. 
pappfupta : gleam, shine, sparkle, 
papvapm: fight, contend, 
papTvpo^: witness. 
Maarrj^, njfTOi: town in Argolis, 
B562. 

paariiu}, aor. pojimitv : lash, whip, 

pjoxTTti, -tyos : lash, whip. 

puardu}, aor. subj v. pjom^atrov : hold 
back, delay. 

pd^pa: dagger, large knife, used 
in sacrifice. 

MaxacDV : son of Asclepius (Aescu- 
lapius); a surgeon from Thes- 
saly, B 732, A 193 ft., A 506 ff. 

paxT]' battle, conflict; field of battle, 
£ 355. 

paxqrq^ : warrior, soldier, fighter. 



68 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



iMXPfuu or fmxtofjuUf fut. frnxTftrofjuUf 

aor. fmxfurdfu^ and iw.\i<(jaaBai : 

Jight^ contend. 
/A^: adv. thoughtlessly f vainly, to 

no purpose, 
ftMjfiSiiai : foolishly f thoughtlessly. 
fU: acc. of iyia 1. 
fuya: adv. qualifying all degrees 

of comparison ; greatly, mightily, 
. very, far. 

Iksya-Ovim ' great-souled, high-mind- 
ed. £pithet of men and peoples. 
fuyaipfo: grudge. 

fuyaXa : adv. greatly. /icya\* cv^ero 

loudly prayed. 
fjixyaXifnop, -opoi : great-hearted, 

courageous. 
fUyapov : large room, main hall (in 

the centre) of the house; pL dujellr 

ing, house, pcUace. 
pjtyas, fijeydXtf, ftcya: great, large, 

tall, mighty. Comp. lui^iav, superl. 

ficyurros. 
luytBoi, -cos : size, height. 
Mcyi;9> i/Tos : son of Phyleus, leader 

of the Dulichians, B 627, E 69. 
Mc8cd>v, -otyos: town in Boeotia, 

B601. 

fif&iwv, -cvros (/tc&0v) : ruler, nding, 
only of Zeus, T 276. 

fUSo/ua : care for, give heed to (with 
gen.), contrive. 

MC&0V, -ovros : son of O'ileus, half- 
brother of Ajax, slain by Aeneas, 
B 727, N 693 fi., O 332 ft. 

fiiSwv : counsellor, leader, captain, 

fuO-dXXo/Mi, aor. partic. furaXfuvos : 
spring after, leap upon. 

yx$-€i(o subj v., fjxOcfjxy inf. : aor. of 
fuOvfffU, let go, give up, surrender. 

fu6-eir<a : drive after, with two aces. 

luSriimv, -ovos : slack, yielding. 

luO-irffu, aor. subjv. luBtiio, aor. inf. 
fu$€fjL£y : let go, give up, surrender; 
intrans. draw back, give way 



fuO-iarrffU, impf. fudtararo: mid. 

take one^s place among. 
fuO-ofuX€o>: associate with, A 269. 
fj^aUiia, aor. fut&tfO'c (smile) : smUe. 
fULi<iiv : comp. of ficyas great, large, 

tcdl, mighty. 
fuiXivos (jjL€\ivo9, fJufXirf) 3: ashen, 

of ash. 

/ACiXix^ (ftcVi) 3: kind, friendly. 

/i€iva : aor. of fievto remain, await. 

fuipofuu, perf . tfifjuope (fiipos) : re- 
ceive as a portion. 

ficcW, -ovos : comp. of /UKpos little, 
short. 

fjJXffjSpoy: ceiling, roof, house. Cf 
tectum. 

fuXxuvm : blacken, stain a dark color; 
in E 354 stain dark red. 

McAav^ios : a Trojan, Z 36. 

fjufXa^, fjJXaiva, fitXav : black, dark. 
Comp. fuXdvTCfW. 

McA,6Qiy/9os : son of Geneus, leader 
of the Caledonian hunt, B 642, 
I543ff. 

fjLeXi, -iros : honey. 

MeXIfiota: a Thessalian town in 
Magnesia, B 717. 

fjueXitf : ash, ashen spear (sc. cy^ctiy). 

ficXi-i^SiTSy -cs : honey-sweet. 

fisXur(m (fifXx) : bee. 

fjueXx-ifipwy, -okos : heart-rejoicing, of 
wine, Z 264 (cf. iwf>p<ovy T 246) ; 
. refreshing, of sleep, B 34. 

fjJXXia : am destined, am about. 

fjJXina: sing (the praises of). 

fiJX<o, fut. /icXi^ci and fjuek-qaerat, 
perf. fA€fMfX,€: am a care, am an 
object of concern. (1) The object 
of concern is put in the nom. and 
the person who feels the concern 
in the dat. (2) The verb is 
impers. and takes the object of 
concern in the gen. 

fii/juta perf. : am eager, rtAsh on im- 
petuously. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



69 



fUfuucvlcLi perf. partic. of fMiKoofua 
bleat. 

fufivrjfjua : remember, perf. of fUfiyQ- 
(TKia remind, 

fUfwiu perf. : strive, wish, am eager. 

fUv : a weaker form of fii/v. (1) In- 
deed, in truth ; (2) correlative with 
8c, helping to mark the contrast 
between two clauses. Cf, yuevroi. 

luvGalvia : am eagerly desirous, 

McveXaos : MenelaUs, king of Sparta, 
son of Atreus, brother of Aga- 
memnon, and husband of Helen. 
B 408, 586 ff., r 21 ff., 206 ff., 
A 94 ff.,Z44ff.,n311ff.,P45 ff. 
He is called AfnfL<f>iXjcy:, fiorp^ dya- 
Ooq, $av66^ (tawny-haired). He 
wandered for eight years after 
the capture of Troy befpre re- 
turning with Helen to his home, 
y 276 ff., 8 351 ff. The Fourth 
Book of the Odyssey gives an 
account of the visit paid by 
Odysseus's son Telemachus to 
Menelaus at Sparta. 

/jAcve-OToXe/io? : standing firm in bat- 
tle, brave, 

McveaOeis, -^os : son of Peteos, and 
leader of the Athenians, B 552. 

M€y€aOr/i : a Greek, E 609. 

MevoiTid&ifp : son of Menoetius, Pa- 
troclus, A 307. 

yuh^, -C09 : might, courage, prowess, 
f^ry, 

fuyta, aor. (J[)fjL€Lva : remain, await, 

fJucpjArfpC^uh aoi^* fupfM^fH^e: am un- 
decided, am in perplexity, ponder, 

M€ponl/, -ottos: a seer of Percote, 
B831. 

/tcpo^, -oiros : mortal, 

Mco^Ai^ : leader of Maeonians, 
B864. 

fiia-oi : see fjJfraxK middle, 
McfTo^ : town in Laconia, B 582. 
fico-OT/yvs {jji£Ta$v] : adv. between. 



Mco-o^is, -tSos: a spring in Thes- 
saly, Z 457. 

fUa-(&)o^ (m e d i u s)3 : middle, in the 
midst, TO fiio-Qv the middle, midst, 

furd: adv. and prep, among, after, 
(1) With dat. in the midst of; (2) 
with acc. into the midst of among 
(as with dat., B 143), after. It 
sometimes implies change, yxra 
S irpaTrero : he turned around, 

fjxraSpofjuSj&riv (8po/ios) : adv. pur^ 
suing, running after, E 80. 

ftcroXAao), aor. fUTaXXTja-av : ask 
about, inquire after, 

/ACT-oX/Acvos : aor. partic. of yxBaX- 
Xofuu spring after, leap upon, 

fura-fm^ioi (/lofos) : between the 
(nipples) breasts, 

fjucrafjuovu}^ : in vain, void. 

fUTa(v : adv. between, only A 156. 

fUTa-Trpi-Trtt} : am conspicuous, am emi- 
nent among, 

IJLeTa-a-<r€vo/uu : rush after, htisten 
after. 

fiera - rpiirta : mid. turn myself 

toward, give heed to, 
yxravhdiji, impf . furrpuSa : speak 

among, 

pjerd-ffyrifit, aor. yxrUiirov speak 
among, 

fura-fftpa^ofua, fut. furafftpdiropm : 

consider aftenoards, A 140. 
fi€Td-<l>pevov : upper part of the back, 
back, 

fju€T-€€iirov : aor. of furd-ffnfpx speak 
among, 

fjL€T-€ifU, fut. pjET-ia-aopm (tipl): am 
among, am between, am one of ou 
mvfTioK-q pxria-a-craL no respite will 
intervene. 

pAr-tipx (eipx) : go after, shall go 
after. 

pxT-ip\opiax, fut. pxrtKewTopjojL, aor. 
partic. /i.€r£A.^(ov: come after, come 
among, cor/ie to, attend to. 



70 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



luT'€a'<rofuu : fut. of fUreiiu am 

among, am between. 
fUT-€<firj: impf. of fUTa-<fnffu speak 

among. 

ficT-oixofiai : go after (with ace). 

fjij£T-awuTO€(v) : adv. behind, after- 
wards. 

fjL€r-i»moy: forehead. 

fjLtv [/uw] : gen. of iy<a I. 

fjL-q: negative. (1) Adv. not, used 
in commands, fii; /x €p€$i{€ do not 
anger me ; in wishes, prj lir rj^Xujy 
SvvajL may not the sun go down; in 
clauses of purpose, o^pa p^ dye- 
pouTTOis €0) that I may not be without 
a prize-, in conditional clauses, 
d Si p^ SitfOKriv if they shall 
not give', in conditional relative 
clauses, ovs prj lajpes ifiav Bavarobo 
<f>€p<nHrai whomsoever the fates of 
death did not carry off. (2) Conj . 
that not, lest, pri ere irapuirg 0erts 
lest Thetis persuade you. 

prfii : adv. but not, and not, not even, 
nor. prfii — prjSe (and not — and 
not), neither — nor. 

ptfSopm, Slot. pi^aTo: contrive, plan. 

p^8oi, -cos : plan, device. 

Mri$<^vri : Thessalian town in Mag- 
nesia, B 716. 

prfKojopm, perf. partic. p^paKvwj.: 
bleat. 

p-qK-iri : adv. no more, no longer, 
MrjKurrevi, -70s: father of Eurya- 

lus, B 566. 
MtfKurrrfiadvj^ : son of Mecisteus, Eu- 

ryalus, Z 28. 
p^Xa pi. : small cattle, flocks of sheep 

and goats. 
pi/jvi asseverative particle, indeed, 

in truth, 
prjv, gen. privo^: month, 
prjvt^, -los : wrath, enduring anger, 
pfffifCta, aor. partic. prpdaa^ : cherish 

wrath, continue angry. 



MrfOVLYf : old name of Lydia, T 401. 

Mi^ovtS) -iSos : Maeonian woman, 
A 142. 

pripa pi. : thigh-pieces. 

prjpiov, pi. pripla or p^pa: thigh- 
piece. Part of the victim which 
was offered as a burnt sacrifice 
to the gods. 
^Mrfpiamff^ : a Cretan, friend of Ido- 
oneneus, B 651, A 254, E 59, 65. 

prjpos : thigh: 

prjormp, -wpos : counsellor, prjanapf. 
<l>6poio (advisers of flight), inspir- 
ers of flight, inciters to flight. 

prjre : and not. pr^re — prfr€ neither 
— nor. 

prjfrqp, gen. prfrpo^ : mother. 

prfrUra : counsellor. Epithet of 
Zeus ; used in the nom. and voc. 

prjTLopm, aor. subjv. prfttaopax : con- 
trive, plan. 

ft^Tts, -los : wisdom, counsel. 

prfrpvi'q: step-mother. 

prjfrpiiyi, -cuos : mother'^s brother, uncle. 

prjxoi, -cos : means of relief, help. 

"Mywy, -ovos: Maeonian, inhabitant 
ofMaeonia, B 864, E 43. 

p/a : fern, of cis one. 

puuvit), aor. subjv. pLi^vg, aor. pass. 
pAavBrjv [c/uavft/ottv] : spot, stain. 

puu - <l>6v<K : blood-stained, blood- 
thirsty. 

[juyvvpi : see piayu),'] 

MtiScia : a Boeotian town, B 507. 

pjucpo^ i little, short. 

MtXrfTo^ : (1) a Cretan town, B 647, 
mother of (2) a town in Caria, 
B 868. 

piXro^dpTio^ : red-cheeked, of ships 
with bows painted red, while the 
hull in general was painted black 
or dark. 

pLpvaZo) Qieyo)) : remain, 

pipvfjfTKiHy fut. pynfjiTopajL, aor. partic. 
^nvqa-aufTd, aor. pvijatwTO, perf. as 



FIBST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



71 



pres. jjiefLvrffim: remind; mid. 

recall to mind, mention ; perf . re- 
member, 
fufivio [fihm] : remain, await, 
fjuv: 3d pers. pron: acc. sing, him, 

her, equiv. to Att. avrov, avrqv. 
Mivveio? : Minyan, B 511. 
fuvwOa : adv. for a little while, for 

a short time. > 
/uvw^a3i09 : short-lived, endurit^^or 

a short time, 
fuvvpi^ti} : lament, complain, 'whine. 
liMry^yKoa. : basin where valleys 

meet, A 453. 
fjuayu) [juywfu], plpf . ifiifiucro, aor. 

pass. ifux^Sfrp^ or ifuyrfv : mix, mid. 

mingle, join with, associate with. 

iv Kony a-L fuy€vqi should be thrown 

in the dust. 
fAurrvXXio: cut imto small pieces. 
fUTfnj: girdle, broadband of metal,'' 

or leather with metal plates, worn 

on the lower part of the body 

uiider the Bta^, and over the 

)^Tiav. See Biaprrfi. 
fU)($€ls ' BX>T. partic. of fucrytt) mix. 
fjLvdofmL, impf . ifjLvdxjvro : am mindful, 
fii^am and fivqcavro aor., fivT^ofim 

fut. : of fUfivya-Kio remind, men- 
tion, remember. 
fivrjoTo^ 3 : wooed, wedded, lawful. 

Epithet of wives, 
fioyca), aor. /wyrj<m : toU, suffer, enr 

dure hardship. 
fioyo9 : exertion, toil, A 27. 
fUNjpa : fate, lot, portion. Kara fioipav 

according to due allotment, fttingly. 
fwipTf-yeirqq, -€s: child of fortune, 

blest by Mciipa at birth, T 182. 
fjLoXjo/vau : aor. partic. of pXiMrKd) go. 
fwX.irj (/iAiro), Melpomene) : song, 
fiopfivpm: splash, 
fwpoq (fUpoi, fWLfXL) : fate, lot. 
liopa-ifWi : destined, fated, 
fwvyoi [/AOV09] 3: alone. 



Mouoa: muse. 

fjLoxOiCu} (fwx^os) : suffer, B 723. 

Mvy3(i>v, -ovos: Phrygian king, F 186. 

Mv&uv, -(ovos : a Paphlagonian, char- 
ioteer of Pylaemenes, E 580. 

livOiofua, aor. subjv. fjLv&qa-ofuu : re* 

late, tell, interpret. 
^fivOoi : word, utterance, saying, 
thought. Cf. Ittos. 

fivia : fly. 

MvKaXrfi Carian promontory, B 869. 

MyKoXtfo-a-oq: Boeotian town, B 498. 

fxvKdjopuJL, aor. /jlvkov: bellow, grate. 

MvKilfvrj : Mycene, town in Argolis ; 
the home of Agamemnon, B 569^ 
A 52, 376. 

Mwi^, i/Tos : son of Enenus, B 692. 

jjLvfitKivo^ : of tamarisk,tamarisk, Z 39. 

Mvptvff: perhaps an Amazon, B 814. 
Cf. r 189. 

fivpCoi pi. (myriad): very many, count- 
less. 

Mvpfu86v€q pi. : a Thessalian peo- 
ple, under command of Achilles, 
A 180, 328, B 684. 

fjLvpofim : weep, grieve, lament. 

Mvpaivoq : a town in Elis, B 616. 

MvaoC pi. : Mysians, B 858. 

fLv^o^ : inmost part, recess. 

fuoXos : toil, moil, struggle. 

pAapaopaJL, fut. fKOfn^aopm (pJofjm) : 
blame, censure, T 412. 

fuow^, -v;(os {pApjcud, owi) : eager- 
hoofed, swift-footed, swift. 

N. 

vol: affirmative particle, yes. Used 
in oaths, vol pa ro8c a-Kyjirrpw 
yes ! by this sceptre ! 

vaieraM or mico, iter. impf. mtcra- 
afTKOv or vaUfTKW. am situated, 
dwell, inhabit. BopM iv vojueror 
ovT€s homes good to dwell in, com- 
fortable, iv vojLopjevov m-oXIeOponf 
a well-situated town. 



72 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



Naon^s: leader of the Carians, 
B867 ff. 

NavjSoXtSi^ : son of Naubolusy Iphi- 

tus, B 518. 
yavrqi (mv?) : saUor. 
vav^v : from the ships, locat. (used 

as gen. pi.) of intfii, 
viapoi : young, tender, B 289. 
vePpoq : fawn. 

vccs nom., vcco-cn dat. ; pi. of vrfii 
ship. 

vetfjL : subjy. 2d sing, of vioyMi go, 
return. 

vuaipa (vcos?) : fern. adj. lower. 

vctaros (vcos ?) : extreme, lotoest. 

v€uc€(Cy«o, iter. impf. vcucctccrKc, aor. 
€v€uc€atK and vcuceo-o-cv: revi^, 
rcftwite, chide, contend, upbraid. 

v€iK09, -cos : strife, quarrel, conflict. 

v€Lfuxy : aor. of vcfuu, distribute. 

v€Kas, -a8os : A^op q/* corpses, E 886. 

vcjcpos : corpse, dead body. 

vitcrap, -apoi : nectar, the drink of 
the gods. 

vcKTopcos: divine, heavenly. Cf. 
afiPpoa-ujs. 

vcKvs, : corpse, pi. ^Ae 

{/ea</ in the lower world. 

y€fua(iofuu : take ill, am vexed. 

V€iJLeat^ : righteous wrath, blame, ov 
vifuais it is no cause for blame. 

Kyxaiaydm, aor. v€p.i<rq<Tt and vtiUtT- 
crrfitv [cvc/ACo-cn/^i/crav] : am angry, 
am vexed. 

v€fU(r(nfros ' ft to excite wrath, blame- 
worthy. 

vifjM), aor. vtifrnv: distribute, mid. 

possess, inhabit, dwell; of cattle, 

pasture, graze; passive (B 780) 

devoured, 
viofmi, subjy. vei/cu : go, return, shall 

go. 

vcos -3 : young, fresh, new. Comp. 
vco)rc/oo9. v€ov adv. Just now, 
newly, afresh. 



vtoaais : young of birds, nestling. 

veo-Tcv;(i}s, -cs : just built, new. 

NcoTo/xos 3 : of Nestor, Nestor's. 

Ncoto/mSi^: son of Nestor, Anti- 
lochus, Z 33. 

NcoTcop, -opos : Nestor, king of the 
Fylians, famous for his age, wis- 
dom, eloquence, and skill in mar- 
shalling the army for battle, 
A 247, B 21, 67, 77, 336, 405, 433, 
555, 601 ; A 293, Z 66, A 597 ff. 

vtvfyrj : {sinew), bow-string. 

vfvpov (nerve) : thong, pi. bow-string. 

v€wa, aor. vcwc : nod. 

vc^eA.17: cloud. 

v€<f>€X-^€p€ra (dyctpco) : cloud-gath- 
erer. Epithet of Zeus. 

vc^os, -cos (nubes) : cloud. 

vc<i»TC/90S : comp. of vcos young. 

v^a acc. sing., v^as acc. pi., v^cs 
nom. pi. : of n/vs ship. 

vi^yarcos : new made, new. (Or, per- 
haps, gleaming, bright.) 

vrjSfVfMi : sweet, refreshing, of sleep. 
(Prob. for ij[8v/AOs)- 

vi/u)s: adj. of a ship, yffuofv 3(^v 
ship-tirnber. 

vqi%, -iSos : naiad, water-nymph. 

v^Xci^, -cs, dat. n^ct (Acos) : piti- 
less, cruel. 

N17X1710S 3: of Neleus, who was 
son of Poseidon and father of 
"Nestor. 

vrffUfyn^, -c's: unfailing, true, vq- 

Ijxprk truly, 
vqytfurf (avc/ios) : calm weather, vrf- 

v€furp when no air is stirring, 

E 523. 

vi^ds : temple. See oAxros. 
vrjTruixo^ : young, helpless, silly. 
vi/irios (in fans, speechless): young, 

helpless, chUdish, foolish, 
NiyptTov : a woody range of mouu" 

tains in Ithaca, B 632. 
v^o-os : fern, island. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OP THE ILIAD. 



73 



vrfs, gen. viyos, nom. pi. v^c? or vfcs, 
locat. used as gen. vav^ivi ship. 

viKoio, fat. inf. vLKrfatfJxy, aor. h/tr 
KqtTfvi conquer^ gain the victory, 
am victoriotis, prevail, 

i^iciy: victory, 

Nc/>cus, -rjo^: son of Charopus, fa- 
mous for his beauty, B 671 ff. 

NTou : a Boeotian town, B 508. 

Ntcrupos : an island of the Sporades, 
B676. 

vl<l>djs, -a8os: snow-flake, 

vo€w, aor. ivoTjai (voCs) : perceive, 
observe, look, devise, plan, am wise, 

^ofqfitay, -ovo5 : a Lycian, E 678. 

voOo^ 3 : illegitimate, bastard, 

'Sofduw, -ow. father of Amphi- 
machus, B 871. 

vofbos: pasture, 

VO09 [voSs] : mind, heart, 

voariu), f ut. vcxm/o'CD, aor. voon^oas : 
return, go home. 

vooTos: return. 

v6a<l>i : adv. apart, separate, far 

from (with gen.). 
voaKtH^ofjuaJL (vocr^) : turn away from, 

reject. 

Noros : south wind, B 145. 
vowros [voo-os] : sickness, plague, 
iro (vw) : a weakened now. Cf the 

English inferential *now' in *now 

it came to pass.' 
vvfJLff)7i: nymph, young woman, vvfi^ 

^tXi; dear lady, 
vvy: now, at the present time, just 

now. vvy 817 now at length. 
vv$, gen. KUKTos (nox) : night. 
ruos : sister-in4aw, brother's wife. 
'Svirqujv: Thracian mountain, Z 133. 
vwraw, aor. yv^t: prick, pierce, wound. 
vSu, nom., vSuv gen. and dat., vvut 

and v(i> acc. (nos) : dual Ist pers. 

pron., we two, us two, 
vtakefUioi: unceasingly, uninterrupt- 
edly, steadfastly. 



imfidta, aor. vfafirj(r€v: distribtUe, 
move this way and that, wield, 
brandish, 

vSify-onl/, -OTTOS : flashing, bright, 

vwtok: back. 

the broad back of the sea, because 
of the arched appearance which 
the qidet sea presents. 

H. 

WayOo^ : (1) a Trojan, son of Phae- 
nops, E 152. (2) A river in 
Lycia, B 877, E 479. (3) A river 
on the plain of Troy which * the 
gods call Xanthus, but men call 
it Scamander,' Z 4, Y 73 fT. 

^vSoi 3 : yellow, tatvny-haired, bhnd, 

^tvT^: guest-gift, a present given 
by guest or host as a token of 
friendship. 

fcivt^Qi, aor. (c)fctvio-o-c: receive AOS' 
pitably, entertain, 

icivo^oKo^ (B€KOfua): host, enter- 
tainer, 

f Civos [fow] : guest-friend, friend, 
used (1) of the one entertained, 
A 377, and (2) of his host, Z 224, 
and (3) of their descendants, 
Z 215. Also, stranger. 

(earos (few) 3: polished; epithet 
of hewn stone. 

fco), aor. 2feo-c : (pi-*^\sh), hew. 

^£<^os, -€09 : sword, long-sword, 

fuX-oxos: thicket, 

(vfJL-pdXXio : bring together, dash to* 
gether, 

$vy: prep, with dat., with. See aw. 
iwdyw : bring together, collect. Tva 

ivvayuip/Ev" kptqa. that ice may join 

battle. 

$w^ia, aor. (wSvja-ca: bind, fetter. 
$vi^fu {dpi) : go together, 
(w-Crffu, impf . pi. ^tcv [fwicouv], 

aor. $w€rjK€ and fwcs : bring to- 

gether, hearken, give ear. 



74 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



(vyi^UKi common, (vytjia common 
store, 

(wrroy: polished shaft, spear shaft. 



o, ^, TO (nom. pi. Toi, rat, and oc, 
ai) : (1) dem. this, that; freq. used 
for the personal pron., he, she, it. 
6 ftcv — 6 Sc one — the other. (2) 
Def . art., the, to adv. acc. there- 
fore. 

S, rj, TO, nom. pL roc : reL who, which, 

what. See 09. 
Sap, dat. pi. cSpcoxrtv: wife, 
oapi^io : converse familiarly, chat. 
ojScXos (obelisk) : spit for roasting 

meat. 

6Ppifio-€pyo9 : mighty-worker, author 

of terrible deeds. 
ofipifAJO-mTpfij : daughter of a mighty 

father, 

6PpifW9 : mighty, strong, powerful. 

oy^Koirra. (oicrdi) : eighty. 

o yc, 17 yc, TO yc : intens. of ^, to 

this, that; he, she. 
oyKOs: barb. 

^Oyxifrriii Boeotian town on Lake 
Coi^ ; ancient seat of the wor- 
ship of Poseidon, B 506. 

o&£f (SoKvctf): adv. with the teeth. 
6Sa( XatoCoLTO yaxay may they < bite 
the dust.' CfX^,irvi. 

oSc, rfSe, ToSc : dem. this, this one here. 

'08u>s: leader of the Halizonians, 
slain by Agamemnon, B 865, 
E39. 

63o9 : fem., way, Journey. 
6&rk, -OKTos (dens) : tooth. 
oSwrfi "pl. pains, pangs. 
oSvnJ-<^Tos : * pain-killer,' 

pain-stilling. 
oSvpofua : bewail, lament, mournfully 

long. 

OSva-(&)€v9, -^05 or -cos - Odysseus, 
Ulysses, an Ithacan, hero of 



myself 



the Odyssey, father of Telema- 
chus, B 259 ft., 631 ft., T 191 ft. 
He is called voXvfirfris crafty and 
Tr6\vfi.y\avo9 abounding in devices. 
He was one of the wisest of the 
Achaean leaders, and was freq. 
sent on embassies, cf. A 311, 
r205, A767ff. 

oSixTo-Ofuu, aor. oSixraKTO : am angry, 
am vexed. 

oea-ai : dat. pi. of 6is sheep. 

o{os c shoot, branch, scion, 

o-$€vi adv. whence. 

o-Oi : adv. where. 

oOofuu : care for, 
about, reck, os 
ovK oOer alavXa 
pil^iiiv, who is reck- 
less in doing vio- 
lence. 

oOovai pi. : linen- 
covering, veil. 

SOpi$, acc. pi. OTpt- 
)(ajs : with like 
hair, B 765. 

ol: end., dat. 3d 
pers. pron., him, 
her. 

dLyvvyuL, impf. ciy-" 

vwTO (r/oCywv- 

To?), aor. wife, oliaxrai open. 
oTSd (aSo)) perf . as pres., 2d sing. 

otaOa, pi. 18/Aev [ur/ACv] , lore, taxun, 

subjv. ci8o>, partic. ctScos, tSvlrfOt, 

plpf . ySvj, y&ee, fut. ^o-cToi, €i&/- 

cctv ifi^f wit) : know. 
oiiTTf^y -€s (Itos): of the same age, 

B765. 

6i(yp6q 3 : wretched, miserable, pitia- 
ble. 

oiivif -i5o9 : suffering, misery, woe- 
oi{v(i> : endure woe. 
OLKOL^ (^(^KOi) : adv. homeward. 
oUvk, -70s : member of one^s house- 
hold. 




6$6yai. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



75 



oucifo, aor. wicqOcv or oLinfitv [ctfinf- 

Oricrav] : dwell, inhabit, colonize. 
oiKvov: home, dwelling. 
oiKoi : adv. at home. 
oiKov^ : homeward, home. 
oTkos (fOikos, y icu 8, -ioich in Nor- 

wich ) : Aoti96, ^ome, dwelling, 
*0l\cv5, : a Locrian, father of 

the lesser Ajax, B 527, 727. 
cifiMryi^ : a groan. 
(K/x(i>{(i>, aor. ^fjuoiey: groan. 
OivetSi^: son of Oeneus, Tydeus, 

E813. 

Oivevs, '■rjo^: king of Calydon in 
Aetolia, grandfather of Diomed, 
Z216. 

oivo-Pafnf^y -cs : heavy with wine, sot. 
Otvofjuw^ : an Aetolian, E 706. 
OIvoutStj^ : son of Oenops, Helenus, 
E707. 

oTvos (/TCKVos, vinum, wine): wine, 
chfo^ypiia or oivoxocixi), impf . ccoi^ 

;(0€i or oivoxoct: pour out wine, 

pour. 

cSvo-^fooi (x^cii>) ! cup-bearer. 
fSvcuff, -<wro? : vine-colored, dark red, 
dark. 

oliaxra : aor. partic. of ciyvvfu open. 

(Kofjuu, cita or o?<o : hold as an 

opinion, intend. 

oto9 3 : alone, hy one*s self. 

o?o9 B : rel. of what sort, what kind 
off what, such as, as; with toZo? to 
be sapplied, such as with infin. 
olov neut. acc. as adv., how, be- 
cause, oiav oKoxxrev (what he 
heard), because of what he heard. 

fAota, aor. MBri (o7o9) : leave alone, 
desert. 

1^, gen.. ouK (pftq, oyis, ewe): sheep. 
oMTct fut., ohri/jxim aor. inf. : of 

ifitpio hear, bring, 
otaOa : 2d sing, of oTSd know, 
^urrewo, aor. imv. ourrcvow: shoot 

with an arrow. 



ourros : arrow. See rpiyX&xw. 
otroi : fate, death. 

OtrvXos : a town in Laconia, B 585. 
Ol)(a\iets, -rjo9 : an Oechalian, B 59& 
OtxoXtiy: town in Thessaly, B 730. 
OvXaXirficv: from Oechalia, B 595. 
oixyiia, iter. impf. oLxytaKW. come. 
6L)(pfuu, impf. ^\€To : go, go away. 

^X^o amnrrofjuei^ flew away, 
ciia or oto) (otofuu) : think, intend, 
oiwvurrq^ and otcmMroXos : sooth" 

sayer, seer who observes birds of 

omen. 

oicuvos: bird of prey, observed for 

omens, omen. 
OKVUQ) : hesitate, shrink. 
oKvos: hesitancy. 
OKpio-a^, -€VTos : jagged. 
6Kpvo<K, -€<ran : (chilling), horrible. 

(See Kpvoets.) 
oKrd'KvrjfWi : eight-spoked, E 723. 
o#crQ>: et^A^ 

6A^co-&i4ui>v, -W05 : (of happy dtvin- 

ity), god-favored, V 182. 
oXcd/909 (oXXv/u) : ruin, destruction, 

death. 

oXciTot, ^Xccas fat., oA€cr(0')2;, oXe 
aor. : of ckXXv/u mm, destroy; 

mid. perish. 
oXcKc*: destroy, kUl ; mid. perish, 

am slain. 

oXtyos 3 : /t^^^6, moZ^. oXlyov adv. 

*OXi{^Q)v, -oivos : Thessalian town in 

Magnesia, B 717. 
oXXv/u, fut. oXeiToi, oXco-cis, aor. 

qSXcou, 6X€(r((r)iys, oXorro, ovXo- 

/Acvos, perf. oXcoXi;: ruin, destroy, 

kill, lose; mid. and perf., am de^ 

strayed, perish, die, 
oXo(c)o9 3 : destructive, deadly, cruel. 

Comp. oXoarrcpoc. 
oXoXvyi; : shrill outcry. 
'OXoocrcrwv, -ovos : town in Perrhae- 

bia, B 739. 



76 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



oXo^vSvos : complaining, doleful, 

6Xo<l>vpofJuu : complain^ lament. 

*OXvfnruK, -dSoi : fern. Olympian* 

'OXvfiirtos: Olympian; in sing., by- 
name of Zeus the Olympian, 

*Okvfiiroi or OSXv/jiiroi : Olympus, a 
high mountain on the boundary 
between Macedonia and Thes- 
saly ; the abode of the gods. 

oXvpta pi. : grain, spelt, 

okioXy: perf. subjv. of oXXvfu, per- 
ish, am destroyed. 

6/W&K ' din, con/used noise, hubbub, 

6fiPp<K (i m b e r) : rain , 

bpnffytpvf^, -€s (ayctpct)) : assembled, 
together. > 

o/i-rfXiKiri : of the same age, those of 
the same age, 

ofJuXiio, aor. iifdXri(ra : am with, asso- 
ciate with. 

ofilXo^ (homily) : throng, crowd, 

o/iixXyj' mist. 

ofifia, -aro9 : eye. 

opyvfUi int. o/juwfua, aor. imv. opxxr- 

ow: swear. 
ofUHo^ or ofJLoao^ 3 : like, alike, com- 
mon, yrjpa^ ofjuoOav old age which 

comes to all alike (?) . 
o/UKoo), aor. ofwuoOi^ficvaA : make 

like, dep. liken myself, 
opoKktta, aor. partic. ofJuoKkijaxK, iter. 

aor. oiWKkrjaxurKC : shout, chide, 

threaten. 
ofWKXi] (xaXeo)) : shouL 
ofJLopyvvfui wipe, 
ofwq 3 : alike, common. 
6fw<r<rg, Sfjuxraoy: aor* of SfiwfU 

swear, 

ofMXjv : adv. together, at the same time, 

along with, 
ofiovfuu : fut. of ofiwfu swear, 
6fi<l)aX6<i^, -€<r(ra t- with bosses, bossy. 
6fjL<fM\oi: navel. 
Sfiifyij: voice. 



ofiMq (ofwlwsi) : adv. like, equally, 
ovap : dream, Cf. oveipos, 
oveiSetos : chiding, abusive, 
6v€t8{lia, aor. imv. ovctSeow : r§- 

proach, heap abuse upon. 
ova&>s, -€09 : reproach, abuse. 
ovcipo-iro\o9 : dream-seer. 
6v€tp<K : dream, vision, 
ovtvrffu, fut. 6vi^€iv, on/crcai, aor. 

ovrjou or oin/cras : help, profit, 

please. 

ovofjudiio : address by name. 

ovofWA, aor. ovoamro: find fault with 
as too little. 

ovo/iotvQ), aor. subjv. ovofn/va): nam^, 
mention by name. 

o^Ptkrfi, -is ' sharp-pointed, A 126. 

ofuo-cw: sharp-pointed, 

o^vs, -cux, -v: sharp, keen, swifi, pierc- 
ing, 6$€a (cognate acc.) KtKkrj- 
ym with sharp cries, 6$v adv. 
keenly, quickly. 

ooo: gen. of os who, (Doubtless 
oo should be written for 5ov.) 

OTra acc, dirt dat. : of voice. 

&7rdi<o, aor. wnraxrav : (give as a com- 
panion), grant, follow, press hard 
upon. 

om/Seco: accompany, go with, r6$a 

fwi omjSei the bow goes with me, 

i.e, I carry the bow, 
dn-iTTCvci) : spy out, look about. 
wri((T)$t(v) : adv. behind, afterward, 

hereafter. 
mrL(r(cr)<o: adv. backward, behind, 

hereafter, 
orrXorepos 3 : younger, 
"Cbroew, -cKTos: Opus, the Locrian 

capital, B 531. 
OTTOS : sap of the fig-tree, fig-sap, 

E902. 

ojr(ir)or€: adv. when, whenever, 
bmr&rtpos' which of the two. 
o7r(ir)ias : adv. how, in order that, as. 
dTTToXcos 3: roasted. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



77 



orrraco, aor. &nTrj<ray: rocLSt, 
oircoTra : perf . of o/oaco see. 
o7ra>pIvo9 3 : autumnal^ of early au- 
tumn. 

opofo or 6/KKo, fut. wpeaOajLj aor. etScv 
or tSev, perf. ^rronra : «e6, /ooA:, 
Judd. vTToSpa i8«l)v eytnt/ askance, 
with fierce look. 

opeyvVfu, aor. subjv. 6p€$rf: reach, 
stretch out, lunge with a spear , 
give; mid. stretch one's self, reach 
out. ot irajiSoi 6p€$aTo reached 
after his son, held out his hands 
toward his son. 

opeicro^ : outstretched, B 543. 

opiofua (6pwfiL) : hasten away. 

*Op€or/8cos : a Boeotian from Hyle, 
E707. 

opeo^K^os: dwelling on the mountains, 

mountain. 
*Op€<m75 : a Greek, E 705. 
opeariaSf-dSoi: of the mountains, vvpr 

^ot opcoTiaSe^ mountain nymphs, 

Z420. 

opea^ : loc. uded as gen. pi. of 6po9 
mountain. 

"OpOri: a town in Perrhaebia, B 739. 

opOwa, aor. partic. opOtoOek : lift up, 
set upright, cfero opOwOils sat up- 
right. 

opim, aor. opive, opMrj : arouse, ex- 
cite, move with pity. 

opKtay : oath, pledge of an oath, vic- 
tim slain in confirmation. 

opK09 : oath, that by which one swears. 

opfimvia: revolve, ponder. 

oppoM, aor. £pp.rf<re and opp.yfirfrrp^: 
urge on, rush, hasten. 

*Op/xciaov : Thessalian town in Mag- 
nesia, B 734. 

opp-rj: onset, endeavor, is 6pp.rp^ 
?yX^o5 within range of (my) spear. 

opp.rfpxi, -aro9 : longing. 

oppjK '• anchoring-place, roadstead. 

*0pv€uu pi. : town in Argolis, B 571. 



opvw, -lOons : bird. 

opvvpjL, aor. cS/mtc, <ipTo and wpopt^ 
perf. opit^pev, plpf. opwpav: arouse, 
excite, drive on; mid. and perf 
arise, raise myself, rouse, rush, 
hasten. 

5pos, -cos, loc. as gen. pi. opc<7^(v) : 
mountain. 

opowo, aor. opova-cv : go hastily, rush. 

opwa : Epic for opaco see. 

opa€o, opcev, oropao: arise, aor. imv. 
of opwpjL arouse. 

*Opo"tXoxo9 : (1) father of Diodes, 
E 546. (2) Son of Diocles, E 542. 

opvpayhoKi : din, confused noise. 

opfjxLviKOs I orphaned, an orphan. 

opxoipjos ' leader, commander. 

'Opxo/xcvos : (1) Minyan Orcho- 
menus, an ancient and rich city 
in Boeotia, B 511, X284. (2) An 
Arcadian town, B 605. 

opwpe perf., optaptiv plpf. : arise, 
from opwpA arouse. 

o5> i7> o> geii« «w or oo : (1) rel. who, 
which, what, o adv. acc. as conj., 
in that, that; c/I quod. (2) Dem. 
05 and o, he, it, esp. with ovSc, p.rfi€, 
KoI, and yap. prjSk os ^vyoi may 
not even he escape. 

OS, rj, ov, gen.» oto (crpo^, suns): 
possessive pron., own, his, her. 

OS TTcp, ij TTcp, o TTCp: intens. rel., 
just who, exactly who; or con- 
cessive, who nevertheless, y Trcp 
ji^t whither. 

wra-a: rumor. 

6aa-aTU)s : how great, E 758. 

wrcrt dual (o cuius): eyes. 

wra-opxu : look, kok ocra^pevos with 
a look that boded ill. 

oor(or)os 3 : how large, how much, how 
far. With roaxros expressed or 
implied, as large as, as much as, as 
far as, as loud as; -pi. how many, as 
many as. oa-(cr)ov adv. how greatly. 



78 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



Sartoy: bone, 

OS Ti9 or 6 Tis, ij T19, 5r(T)i, nent. pL 
Smm, acc. pi. ous rivas indef . reL 
whoy whoever; in indirect ques- 
tions, who. 6 rt wherefore, why* 

&rav [arc av] : whenever, 

ore: when, 

on or ^rrri : conj. that, because; adv. 

with superl. orri raxurra as quickly 

as possible, 
orpaA.c(k)9 : nimbly, with speed, 
'Ot/bcvs, a Phrygian king, 

ri86. 

oTfnfpoi 3 : nimble, prompt, 

orptvas: acc.pl. of S$pii with like hair, 

oTfnrvfo, SLOT, wTpvv€i impel, arouse, 
excite, urge on, 

ov, ovK, ovici or oO^ : i^^g* adv., not. 
In questions, it implies the an- 
swer, *yes.' 

oSSaS} dat. ovSei : floor, ground, 

ovSc : but not, and not, not even, nor. 

on&fv : neut. acc. of ovSets, for ou ri 
not at all, 

ou8c irorc : never at any time, 

ov8dg: threshold, 

Ovjt-aA.cyc0v, -orros (Heed-less) : 
Ucalegon, a Trojan elder, F 148. 

mfK-in : no longer, no more, 

wkC (ov) : no/, used at the end of a 
sentence in xol ovkL 

ovXofij&si throng, press, 

ovkofievoi 3 : destructive, deadly, mor- 
tal, aor. partic. of 6XXvfU destroy, 

orXo9 : destructive, baneful, deadly, 

ovXjo-)(VT(a (x^w) : (poured out barley- 
corns), barley-corns, 

OvXvfiiroq: Olympus, See ^OXvfuros. 

OvXvfLTrw-Se: to Olympus, 

oSv: inferential particle, now, ihen, 
at an events, 

ovv€Ka [Irexa] : because. 

cwofm, -aro9 iSvofm] : name, 

OvpavtW, -ojvo? : o/* Aeaven, tnAa5t- 
tont ^ Aeaven, A 570, E 373. In 



E 398, it seems to he son of 

Uranus, 
ovpavo-Oey : from heaven, 
avpayi-Oii in the heavens, ovpavofii 

irpo athwart the sky, V 3. 
oiipayos : heaven, the heavens, sky, 
ovpcvs, -Tjoi (o^poi) : mule, 
o{/x>9, -cos : mountain, 

otpos: wind, iKfuvoi otpo9 favoring 

breeze, 
ovpos: trench, 

ovrdlfo, aor. oimure, or ovtom, aor. 

: wound with something 
held in the hand. 

ovre: amf not, nor, oSrc — ovrc 
neither — nor, 

ovrtSavos : worthless, a nobody, 

ou riSf ov n : no on€, non^. ou n 
not at a//. 

ou ro( : by no m€ans, 

ourosy avn/, rovro : dem. this, ouros 
is the ordinary demonstrative in 
Greek and points to a person or 
thing as present, either actually 
or in thought. Its place is gener- 
ally taken in Homer by the article, 
6, ^, TO, in demonstrative use. 

our<i>(s) : adv. thus, so, 

^cX(X)ov or <S^cX(X)ov (aor. of 
o^iXa> owe) : should have, ought 
to have. With at^c and <us, it is 
used to express a wish which 
cannot be realized: aSff SffxXis 
iya/ios cbroXco^ would that thou 
hadst died unmarried, 

o^c\Xq> : increase, magnify, exalt, 

*0<f>€\iw : a Trojan,' Z 20. 

o<^AxAfu>s : eye, Cf, o/ifm, 

o^pa: conj. (1) of time, whUe, as 
long as, until; (2) of purpose, 
that, in order that, 

6il>pvs, -ws : eye-brow, brow, 

6xp, : adv. by far, 

oxcor-<^(v) : loc. pi. as dat. sing, of 
oxos chariot. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



79 



-^os (€X«>)J holder, fastening. 

'Oxiyono? • an Aetolian, E 843. 

6)(0€<JD, aor. wx^iyorav : am out of tem- 
per, am vexed, am displeased, 

6)firj : bank of a river. , 

5xos, -cos, dat. pi. as sing, ox^co-- 
aiv or oxca-^t(v) : chariot. See 
ap/ia. 

o^, gen. oiros (vox) : voice. 
o^c: /ate. 

oi/rcai, oij/tfrOajL : f ut. of opoco 
wl/Cywoi : late-bom, o^tydvcov ar- 

OpiSnrm of coming generations, 
wl/ifjuK : /ate, B 325. 
cH^is, -£os : aspect. 
o^-re\e(7TOS : /ate in fulfilment, B 325. 

n. 

?rayi7 : aor. pass, of 'mf^gmLjix, make 
fast. 

iray-xpvcr€<K : a// ^ro/rf, of solid gold, 
vdyxy : adv. altogether, utterly. 
vaBoL : aor. opt. of 7ra<7x<«> suffer, 
Ilaii/w, -0I/09 : physician of the gods, 

E 401, 900. 
mufjiaVi -ovos [Troiav]: song of praise, 

pean. 

IIcuoi^s pi. : Trojan allies from 

Macedonia, B 848. 
inu9 or Trots, gen. TroiSds : child, son, 

daughter, 

Ilauros CATrawros, B 828) : town in 

Asia Minor, E 612. 
Trai<l>dxr(r<o : flash forth here and there, 
ttoXm : adv. long ago, long before. 
iraXoUryevrfSi -cs J old. 
TFoXcaos 3 : of old, ancient. 
iraXaifn], gen. and dat. TraXaifirf-<l>L 

(^palm) I hand. 
mXdjcr<rw, perf. partic. ireiraXcLyfti' 

vov: spatter, 
iroXtX-Xoyos (Xeyco) : collected again. 
mtXLfi-^XdtofWJL, aor. partic. TroXt/x,- 

TrXoyx^OTos : am driven back. 



TToXiv : adv. back, backwards, vaMf 
Xai€To fivOov * took back ' whcU he 
said, 

iraXw-dyptTOi (dyp€io) : (to be taken 

back), revocable, A 526. 
iraXivopa-oi : turning back, back" 

wards, V 33. 
naU<£s, -<i&)s (ttoJXXw): Pa//a«, 

(Spear-wielding). Epithet of 

Athena as goddess of war. See 

TToXXo), aor. tt^Xc: brandish, shake, 

cast (of lots), toss, 
irdfiTrav: adv. entirely, altogether, 
Traft-TTotKtXos : all-variegated, of many 

colors ; prob. tuiVA ftri^Ai border, 
irdjx-irptjyra : adv. ^r»< t^. all, before 

all others, 
7rafi-<lHuvm : shine bright, am all' 

shining. 

iraprffMvom, -oxro, gen. -wvros : all' 

shining, bright. 
TTctv-aypos (aypco)) : catching every- 
thing, all-embracing, E 487. 
Trav-otoXos: all-flashing, 
Hav-axpLLOL pi. : the Pan'Achaeans, 

Achaeans as a whole, B 404. 
Ilav&ipos : son of Lycaon, leader of 

the northern Lycians, B 827, A 88, 

E'168, 246. 
nav-cXXiyvcs pi. : the ParirHellenes, 

the people of northern Greece as 

a whole, B 530. 
'imiMy/Aepios 3 : all day long, 
HdvOooi : a Trojan elder, father of 

Euphorbus, Polydamas, and Hy. 

perenor, T 146. 
irav^vvxio^ 3 : all night long. 
IlavoTrcus, Phocian town on 

the Cephisus, B 520. 
Trav-crv&'jy : with all zeal, in all 

haste. 

irdvTYf : adv. everywhere, on all sides, 
TravTOtos 3: of all sorts, wavroMOf 
dvcfuov winds from aU quarters. 



80 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



irayroat: in every direction, on all 

sides. 
vainra^o} : ccUl papa, 
wam-aivio, aor. partic. irairrijva's: look 

about cautiously, look about after, 

scan. 

vap, irapd, or impat: adv. and prep., 
by the side of, beside, near by. 

(1) With dat., by the side of. 
TTOLpa KpovcWi KoBil^tro sat down 
by the side of the son of Cronus, 
irap Znjui KoB-jfuyoi seated in the 
home of Zeus, trap 3c 6L aXXoi 
vaUrv Boccoroi the other Boeotians 
dwelt near (beside) him, Krdfjusr 
vw irap o^a-^v slain beside the 
chariot. 

(2) With acc., to the side of, along 
by, Ifiaivt vapai iUoprfiea went to 
the side of Diomed, Aaov oTrja^av 
wop ipiveov station the people by the 
wild fig-tree, Prj wapa Siva OaXdxr- 
OT/s set out along the sea-shore, fiaXe 
arrjOo^ irapa pa^ov hit the breast 
beside the nipple, IpSov tKaropPas 
trapa Siva were sacrificing heca- 
tombs along the shore (where an 
idea of motion may be implied, 
stretched along the shore). 

(3) With gen., from the side of, 
from. . ayy€Xoii rjX$€*lpi^ nap Aios 
Iris came as a messenger from Zeus, 
Qiyaikirficv lovra irap Ev/wrou 
on his way from Oechalia from the 
home of Eurytus. 

vdpa: by *anastrophe* for irapd, 

(1) when it follows its case, and 

(2) when it stands for irdpeari or 
irdpeuTL rw altl irdpa et^ ye OeStv 
one of the gods ever stands by his 
side. 

mparpKrfiritjv (PaWio) : with a side 
hit, A 6. 

wapa-pXwcKio, perf. mppApPXmK€7 
go by the side of, help. 



mpa-Sixppm, aor. wvpcSc^ro: re- 

ceive from, Z 178. 
vap-auno^: foreboding ill, ominous, 
A 381. 

mp<dcr<ria, aor. mpqii€v: go past 
with a bound. 

mpa-KoCrrii (icci/iai) : spouse, hus- 
band. See aXo;(os. 

TTopa-icotris, -i09 : spouse, wife. 

mpa-Xvyopm, aor. iropcXefaro : lie 
beside, lie with. 

vapa-irtiOdik, aor. irapeireurey: per" 
suade. 

vapa-OTas i taking his stand near, 
aor. partic. of waptarapm. 

vapd-irxg: aor. subjv. of iraptxio 
furnish, give. 

mpa-rpita, aor. Traperpea-ava^ : spring 
to one side, shy, E 295. 

7rapd-<lyrfpjL, aor. mLpeirroy: counsel, 
urge, persuade. 

wapSaXerf (sc. Sopd) : panther'' s skin. 

TTop-d^qprn: sit (down) near, or be- 
side. 

mp&al pi. : cheeks. 

irdp-eipx, 3d pi. Trapeam, fat. Trapecr- 
crcTcu (ei/u) : am at hand, stand 
ready, am at (your) service. 

mp<vnxjv: aor. of irapdjtfnipjL, coun- 
sel, urge, persuade. 

vap-ipxofiai, int. irapeXevcreai : elude, 
evade, circumvent, outwit. 

irap-€)(iii, aor. subjv. Trapaxrxg : fur- 
nish, give. 

mtpijiov (irapeui) : cheek-piece. 

Trap-vfpjoi : sit beside. 

HapOiyut^ : river in Faphlagonia, 
B854. 

irap$€voi: virgin, maiden, young 
woman. 

Uapt^, -UK : Paris, more freq. called 
Alexander, son of Priam. He 
carried off Helen, wife of Mene- 
lans and so brought on the Tro- 
jan war. r 325, 437, Z 280, 503. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



81 



imfyttrnLfuOy aor. mipaurrd^ : take my 
stand beside, stand near, stand by, 
assist, 

irap-iaxo), inf. wapurxifjucv (cxw) : 
hold near, hold in readiness. 

mip'/iififiXiOKe : perf. of irapa.p\iS>- 
CKfo, stand by the side of, help. 

7rdp-oi$€(v) : in front, before. 

rraproCxo/ua, impf. ira/xpxcro: pcus 
by. 

mfHK : adv. before, formerly, at other 
times. TO ndpo^ formerly. With 
infin. (cf irplv), before, irdpos 
ToSc ipya ywuOai, before these 
things occurred, before this hap- 
pened. 

UappaarCrj : a district in southwest- 
em Arcadia, B 608. 

nSsy Tram, irav, gen. Travros, irdcnp: 
every, all, the whole, irdvra adv. 
wholly. 

Trao-oaXos: peg, pin on which to 

hang things. 
inur-avSirj : see mLvavSlrf, in aU haste, 
irwjccia: sprinkle. 

7rd(rx<o, aor. opt. wdOoL, perf. iriirwrO^ 
or 7renxuT$€ [7rejr6v$aT€] : suffer, 
fiy Ti TToffoL lest he suffer something, 
i.e. lest some harm befall him. 

mrmyiaJL, aor. irdxravro : eat, 

9rarcQ>, aor. irdrrjau : trample, Kara 
ndrrja-ojif trampled on, A 157. 

van/jp, gen. 7rarpo9 (pater): father, 

wdroii beaten path. 

irdrprq'. fatherland. 

varpk, -tSos : with or without ytua, 
fatherland. 

HdTpoKXo>s, voc. UarpoKkcis: Patro- 
clus, son of Menoetius, friend 
of Achilles, slain by Hector, 
A 307, 337, 345, A 602 ff., H 2 ff.. 
787 ff. 

jrar/DoMos 3 : of one's father, ancestral, 
hereditary, itivo^ miTpwuK, friend 
by descent, family friend. 



TTOvpos : little, small, few. Comp. 

mvpoTtpoi. Eqaiv. to oAtyos. 
iravo'fiiiA.i; : cessation, respite, B 386. 
Traixo, fut. partic. jrawrovau, aor. 

irawmv, perf. iretravroA : stop, put 

an end to; mid. cease, come to an 

end. 

TIa<l>\ay€V€s pi. : a people dwelling 
in Asia Minor on the Fontus. 
B 851, E 677. 
mLxy^y -€(a, -V : thick. 



irc&uD, aor. ir€&fj<r€ 

(ttovs): fetter. 
irtSiXjov: sandal. 
'ir€Su)v: plain. 




7re&ov8c : to the plain, ^^^^^ 
TTcfo?: on foot. m{oi WSiXov. 
infantry. 

TTtiSna, fut. irtlcTtvi, aor. iri^ofirjv, aor. 

opt. irtTrCBoLpueVt perf. iremilBaxnv, 

plpf. itreiriOfJucv: persuade; mid. 

am persuaded, obey; perf. trust, 

have confidence. 
TTCirao) : am hungry. 
Ueipai&q^: son of Peiraeus, Ptole- 

maeus, A 228. 
irupap, -aro? : issue, end. 
irapdio, fut. irtipvjaopax, aor. lireipvj' 

aavTo, TTCipriO^vaA: try, endeavor, 

make trial of, put to the test. 
Ileipti^oos: king of the Lapithae, 

friend of Theseus, A 263, B 741. 
Ilapoos : leader of the Thracians, 

B 844, A 520. 
TTCcJott), aor. hrupav, perf. partic. ire- 

irapfjLtvov : pierce. 
IleAayw, -orro?: (1) A leader of 

the Pylians, A 295. (2) A Lycian, 

companion of Sarpedon, E 695. 
ircXa{(D, aor. 7re\ao'(o')€v, iTrXrprro, 

iriKdxrBri : bring near, bring to, in' 

volve in; pass, approach, come near, 
UeXiouryucdq or IleAaayo?: Pelasgian. 

TO IIcAao7iKov "Apyos Thessaly, 

B681. 



82 



VOCABULABT TO THE 



ireXcicfe, -aSos : dove, 

TcXcfcvs, -€09 : axe, 

TcAc/uij[a>, aor. vtXxfuxjhj: shake^ 
pass, tremble^ shudder, 

UtXiqi : Pelias, king of lolcus, who 
drove out his brother Neleus and 
his half-brother Aeson, and sent 
his nephew Jason in quest of the 
golden fleece, B 715. 

HeXXrivrj : an Achaean town, B 574. 

IIcXo^, -OTTOS : Pelops (son of Tan- 
talus), who went from Lydia to 
Elis, won the hand of Hippoda- 
mia in a chariot race, established 
his rule, and gave its name to 
Peloponnesus, B 104 f . 

ircXo) and s-eXo/ioc, aor. as pres. {jtXco, 
hrXxro : (move), am. 

irtXsopios : (gigantic), large, mighty. 

ire\a}pov: monster, portent. 

v€fjL7ro>, int. irc/i^o), aor. hrtitufffv: 
escort, attend, send, 

Trefiir^fiokov (irhrrc) : Jive-tined fork 
used in sacrifices. Similar sacri- 
ficial forks have been found. 




W€v0€po9 : father-in4aw, toife^s father. 
viyOo^, -€os : sorrow, grief, 
TTivofjuu (ttwos) : toork, am busy, 
vfvra-enjpo^ (2ros) : Jive years old. 



TreynljKoirra: Jifty, 

r€iraXayfi€vov: bespattered, perf. par 

tic. of TraXaxraia spatter, 
treirapfiAvoi : studded, pierced, perf. 

partic. of ttc^co pierce, 
iremurOe : perf. of irajTXia suffer, 
ir€inff€ : perf. of mjywfu fx, make 

fast. 

miriBoifjLev: redupl. 2d aor. opt. of 

iruBm persuade, 
iretrXrjym, -via: perf. partic. of 

vXi/o-orfiD smite, strike, 
veirAos : cov- 

ering, robe. 

The principal 

female gar- 
ment. This 

robe left the 

arms bare, 

but reached 

to the feet. 

It was gath- 
ered at the 

waist by a 

girdle (foSny). 
irewv/Ao/os: pru- 
dent, discreet; 

perf. partic. of 

irvco) breathe, 
irtiroiBaxTW : perf. of TttiOta persuade. 
iriirwrOf. [irtTrovOar^] : perf. of 7ra- 

(T\<a suffer, 
irciron/arat : flit, hover, are in flight, 

perf. of iroTwofJuu fly. 
ireirpto/iivoy: fated, perf. partic. from 

the same root as iropov gave, fur 

nished. 

vim-avToi: are spread, perf. of rerav- 

Wfu unfold, spread out, 
veirvOoiTo: redupl. aor. opt. of wv 

Oavopjox learn, 
irenvKoa-fieya: perf. partic. of 7V#ci({«i 

cover, 

Triirnw, -ow : good-fellow, used in 
addresses by an elder or superioi^ 




xcxXos. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



83 



in an affectionate, condescending, 
or contemptuous tone. 

wep: in tens, particle, enclitic, exceed- 
ingly , very, exactly, however much 
(with concessive partic). av irip 
fuv Turw do thou at least honor him. 

HepaiPoi pi. : a Felasgian tribe, 
B749. 

TTcpao), pres. inf. wcpaav, fut. Trcpiy- 
<retv, aor. iiriprqa-tv : traverse, cross, 
go through, pierce, 

ncp7a/io$: the acropolis of Hios, 
A 508, E 446, 460, Z 512. 

nep7ap-i&^: son of Pergasus, Dei- 
coon, E 535. 

irifyqvx adv. opposite, on the other 
side of, with gen. 

ir€p0<o, aor. irifHTtv : sack, destroy, 

ir^pLi adv. and prep., about, round 
about, concerning^ exceedingly, 

(1) With gen., about, concerning, 
for: vepl aeio fAa)(rja'ovraL will 
fight for thee. Used adverbially 
with gen. to denote superiority : 
ircpi TravTOJv Ififjuma to be superior 
to all, 

(2) With ace, round about, 
around : irepl A(i>8a>n/v oIkC HOevro 
built their homes about Doddna, 
irepi K€ivov otifve endure woe at 
his side, 

(3) With dat., about: aipa wepl 
Sovpl iprnjaei blood will gush forth 
about the spear, ^irStva irtpi ony- 

* Oeamv chiton about the breast, 
wipi : by ^anastrophe' for Trcpt, when 

it follows its case. 
ircpi-jSotVco, aor. inf. vepiP^vajLi go 

about, defend, 
irtpi-hpopjo^: (running around, that 

which can be run around), open. 
Trepcre^cD, aor. imv. 'irepur^co: {hold 

about), defend, protect. 
wepirLfmjpM, aor. wepiarria'av: set 

about, aor. took my stand about. 



mpt-KoXX-i^, -€s : exceedingly beauti- 
ful, charming, 

ircpi-#cXvTOs : famous, illustrious, 

Trtpi-KTiLVin : slay round about, 

ir€pC-(rx€o I aor. imv. of irtptrexta 
defend, 

irepL-r^XXjOfua : roll around, 

ir€pi-Tp€<l}o/ua : turn around, run 
around, 

Trcpi-TpojrecD : roll, roll around. 

1l€pL<f>a^, -avTos: an Aetolian, son 
of Ochesius, E 842 ft. 

ir€pi-<l>pa&€m : very carefully. 

TTcpi-^pcov, -ovos (^pi}v) : intelligent, 
prudent. 

Trept-iacruwi adv. too much, over- 
much. 

UepKioavo^ : of Per cote, B 831, Z30. 
UepKioTTf : town in Asia Minor, on 

the Hellespont, B 835. 
wepovrf : pin , brooch, fibula. 




iripaa^ : aor. partic. of iripBm sack. 
7r€at(y), ireaiav, irco-wv: aor. of 

TrtTTTO) fall. 
w€<r<r<a, inf. irta-a-i/iev : (digest), en* 

Joy, nurse. 
ireraXxjv (petal) : leaf, 
irtTowvpjL, aor. iriraxrcrav, perf . ttc- 

irravTaLX spread, spread out, t*n- 

fold. 

irtrtrp^oq (irirofua) : flying, winged, 
Ueretov, -(ovos : Boeotian village, 
B500. 

Ueredk, -wo : Peteos, father of Me- 

nestheus, B 552, A 327. 
irirofua, aor. hrraro : fly, 
werpTfi rock, 
TCTpiJ-cts, -ccoa : rocky. 



84 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



irl^ayrai sing.: appear, perf. of 

^Kuviii show. 
Tc^oKnu pi. perf., ir€<f>v€fiey redupL 

aor. inf. : from root ^ev kill, slay. 

See €w€<l>vw. 
r€<l>piKvuu: bristling, perf. partic. 

of <f>pitra'io. 
v€<l>vd(n : have grown, perf. of ^vo) 

make to grow, put forth. 
7r€<l>vyfUvo¥ : perf. partic. of if^tvyta 

jflee, escape. 
iTQ : whither t 

vQi enclitic, in any way, in any 
direction, rrg voXtaw into one of 
the cities. 

mfiyeav-fioWoi : thick-fleeced, T 197. 

fnyyij : spring, source. 

irqyvvfu, aor. iirq$€ and ^rayi;, perf. 
a-cmfycv: fix, make fast, build; 
pass, and perf. am fixed, made fast. 

Hyfiam : son of Antenor, E 69. 

TLrfiaxron : son of Bucolion, Z 21 if. 

TLrfituroi : town of the Leleges, de- 
stroyed by Achilles, Z 35, Y 92. 

ir^Xc : aor. of vaXXia toss. 

TLrjKdSrtf;, IIi/XcW, -<uvos or JhjkrfLor 
hrp : son of Peleus, Achilles, A 1, 
146, 188, 197, 277, 322, B 674, 770. 

TLrjkMVi, -ifo^ : Peleus, son of Aeacus, 
husband of Thetis, father of 
Achilles, A 489. 

IIi^Xcov: Mt. Pelion, a mountain 
in Thessaly, south of Mt. Ossa, 
B744. 

ir^fm, -aros : suffering, disaster, bane. 
wrffjmv<a, aor. opt. m^/Ai/vecar : injure, 

commit a hostile act. 
Ili^veios: chief river of Thessaly, 

B 762 ff. 

ni7V€\€ci>9,-ii): Boeotian leader,B494. 
inji$€, ini$as: aor. of trqywfu fx, 

make fast, build, 
mjoq : connection by marriage. 
Urfpuff : prob. ^e region of Pherae, 

B 766. \ 



wrjpoi : maimed f mute, perhaps blind, 

B599. 
TT^xw, -€09 : arm. 

n^n^s: a Trojan from Percote, 

slain by Odysseus, Z 30. 
irUav or irufjucv inf., irvgar^ subjv. : 

aor. of irtvo) drink. 
tnBofurjv : was persuaded, obeyed, aor. 

of TTuBio persuade. 
wuBiio, aor. partic. wuO-qims (trtiBui) : 

obey. 

TTiKpo^ 3 : sharp, biting. 
wCfiirXrj/jLi, impf . wLfinXavro : fill. 
frCva^, -0X09 : tablet, 
irivia, aor. rrvga^ I'Tvrjq] : drink. 
iriarros aor. (l)ircor€ : fall, 
vtaau: pitch, A 277. 
7rMrro9 (ireiOoi) : faithful, trusty. 
TTurroofJuu, aor. 7rurTwmvTo(Trurr6i): 
pledge. 

irurwo9 (ttuOw) : relying on, trusting. 
UltBw, son of Pelops, and 

king of Troezene, T 144. 
ntruoa: Mysian town on the Helles- 
pont, B 829. 
TrtcDv, -OV09 : fat, fertile, rich. 
irXai<a, aor. pass, partic. irXayxBtv 

ra%x drive. 
nAaK09: a mountain in Mysia, at 

the foot of which lay Theba, 

Z 396, 425. 
TLXaTouL : Platea, a Boeotian town, 

on the Asopus, B 504. 
7rAaTav«JT09 : plane-tree, B 307. 
7rAarv9, -c2ti, -v : broad, wide feeding 

(of goats). 
7rAayx^erra9 : aor. pass, partic. of 

irXdito drive. 
nXeioi 3 : full. 

7rX€i(7T09 3 : most, very many. Superl. 
of TToXvs much. irXeurroy adv. the 
most, 

fl-Xcoov, irXeiav, or wXiuw, irXiov, dat. 
pi. itXjLov&To-i, nom. wXit^, acc. 
tXw: more. Comp. of ttoXus 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



85 



muck, rb irXeiav vcXifwv the greater 
part of the war^ rw vXcovcuv AvKtW 
(the majority) the great mass of the 
Lycians, 

irXtvpd pi. : ribs, side, A 468. 

HXevpwv, '•Swoii Aetolian town, 
B 639. 

ttXco), impf . iwXeov : sail, 

irXyjfYq : hlow^ stroke, 

Ttkrfiv^, -vos: crowd, multitude^ the 
rank andJUe, 

irkriOia : am fulL 

wki^fivri (fl-Xi^o}) : nave of a wheel. 
flrX^-tinros (irX'qa'a'u}) : (driver of 

horses), knight, horseman. 
irXi/crtos 3 : near by; as subst. neigh- 
bor. 7rkrj<rCov adv. near. 
TrXqa-a-io, aor. 7rX^fc(v) and cttcitXi;- 

yov, perf . partic. ircirXi/ycos : strike, 

beat,fiog. 
TrXovros : riches, wealth. 
irviLUi or irv€a») perf. partic. Trtirvv^ 

ficFos : breathe; perf. mid. am efis- 

creet, prudent, 
TTvevfJuay, -ovo9 (tztccid, pneumonia): 

lung. 

irvoiiq : gust, blast of wind. 

Uo&iXci/Ho?: son of^Asclepius (Ae- 
sculapius), brother of Machaon, 
B732. 

HoSdpKTi^, -€0$: son of Iphiclus, 

brother of Protesilaus, B 704. 
voi-upK/fi, -€s: swift-footed, epithet 

of Achilles. 
7ro8^qy€fjL09 : wind-footed, swift. 
nt)S-(oiceia (<okvs) : swiftness of foot, 

Jleetness, B 792. 
voMicrfs, -c?: swift-footed, fleet. 
voBiio, iter. impf. voBUa-Kti yearn 

foT^ miss. 
voBri : yearning, ot Ifijuo mffriv ixov- 

atv who miss me. 
mOi ! enclitic, at some time, ever. 
mUia, aor. iroCqa-ev, perf. irtiroLifrax : 

make, buUd, fashion, do. 



iroti^-€i9, -oTos (iroCrjD : grassy. 
TToiTjTo^ 3 (7rfM€(i>) : made, well-^made. 
TTouaKfm, -aro9 : variegated work, as 

decoration on the border of a 

garment. 
TTOCjoXos 3 : variegated, artistically 

wrought. 
TTOifuuvai : am a shepherd. 
iroLfirfv, -CI/09 : shepherd, voijusva 

Xaa>v shepherd of the people, an 

epithet of commanders. 
TTOi/tin/ios: belonging to the flock. (rroB- 

fwv TTOifivi^ sheep-cote, B 470. 
TTOivq : atonement, recompense. 
TTotb? 3 : what sort of, what 

TTOtTTVUtD : puff, buStlc. 

^roXccs nom., <3roX€as aoe.t 'inaTiy, pL 

of TToXvs much, 
wokep.'qio^: of war. 
iroX/efjui<o: wage war, Jight. 
iroKtfjuum^ : fighter, warrior. 
7r(r)oXcjuos : war, battle, 
irdkefwvie : to battle, to the war. 
iroKimi many, gen. pi. of ttqXvs 

much. 

ircX-qt^ : nom. pi. of ttoXis dty. 
iroXi'qTTi^ : citizen, B 806. 
TToXiv-Sc : to the city. 
TToXio? 3 : gray. 

iroXt^t -ios, dat. iroXet or TroXi^t, nom. 
pi. TToKyjeq, gen. ttoXaW, ace. iro- 
Xia?: c%. oic/n; ttoXis citadel, 
acropolis. 

IIoXiTiTs : son of Priam, B 791. 

irokXdxi: often, frequently. 

TToXXov [iroXv] : adv. much, far. 

iroXvSXi, -Iko9 (otWctf) : with many 
onslaughts, stormy, 

TToKwLpvt dat. : r£cA in sheep, 

rich in flocks, B 106. 

TToXih-jScvdiJ?, -es (fkiJBvi) : very deep. 

TToXv-jSouXos (pouX.'q): (rich in ad- 
vice), very prudent. 

9roXv-&uiSaXos : artistically worked, 
cunningly vjrought. 



86 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



wo\,V'taKpfV9» -V (Saiepv) : tearfid^ 
cawing many tears. 

woXvSapds, -aSos (Sct^) : with many 
(necks) ridges^ many-ridged* 

QgXvScvicitS) -COS : Polydeuces^ Pol- 
lux, son of Zeus and Leda, broth* 
er of Castor and Helen, a famous 
boxer, V 237, X 300. 

voKv^vifnjoq {hvijfay. thirsty, dry, arid, 
A 171. 

m\v-Siopaq: rich in gifts, richly^ 
dowered, 

woXv^vyos (fvyw): with many ^yoke- 
timbers,* strong, B 293. 

voXv-Tfxrp, -€s (yixi) • loud-sounding, 
resounding. 

IIoXvlSos : ft Trojan, son of Eury- 
damas, £ 148. 

iroXv-xe(7Tos (kcktoi}) : richly em- 
broidered (or marked), V 371. 

voX.iMcXi/i9, -tSos : many-benched. 

TroXv-KXrfroi (koXco)) ? summoned 
from many places. 

vokv'KfirfTOi (ica/Ai/o)) : wrought with 
much toil. 

vokv-KyrjfWii with many glades, B 497. 

iroKv-Kotpayirf (Koipavos) : rule of 
many, B 204. 

TroXtMcn/fuuv, -om (icr^/iui) : rich in 
herds, E 613. 

iroXv-XrjuK (Xi/iov) : ncA in fields of 
grain, E 613. 

iroAv-fn^Xos (/a^Xoi^) : nc^ in flocks 
of sheep. 

iroXv-firprus : prudent, wise. 

devices, ingenious. Epithet of 
Odysseus. 

iroAv'fLv^os : of many words. 

HoXweucri^, -cos : Polynlces, son of 
Oedipus. The expedition of the 
'Seven against Thebes' was to 
recover the kingdom for Poly- 
nices from his brother Eteocles, 
A 377. 



noXv jietvos : son of Agasthenes, 

leader of the Epeans, B 623. 
voXtMrafuov, -okos (ircjrafioi) : rich, 

having many goods, A 433. 
UoXviroCrrii : sou of Peirithoiis and 

Hippodamia, one of the Lapi- 

thae, B 740, Z 29. 
mXvq, mXkq, troXv, gen. iraXcos, 

pL nom. iroXccs, gen. ttqXcw, acc. 

vokias: much^ large, long, pi. 

many. iraXv, itoXXok, iroAAa adv. 

much, often, by far, far. iroAXa 

^pdro prayed earnestly, iroXv pjii- 

(flv far greater, ttoKv ^praros by 

far the best. Comp. ttAciW, sup. 

wActoTos. 
TToXv-aKopOfioi : agile, B 814. 
iroXv-inrcpiJs, -cs (aweCpta) : wide" 

spread, far-scattered. 
iroA,v-oTa</^vAos (ora^vXi;) : rich in 

(clusters of grapes) vines. 
7nXv-oT€vo9 (oTCFO)) : causing many 

groans, 

voXv^pijpfay, -owos : rich in doves. 
HoXvijnffios I one of the Lapithae, 
A 264. 

TToXv-^Xour/Sos : loud-roaring, epi- 
thet of the sea. 

UaXvffMvrqq : son of Autophonus, 
slain by Tydeus, A 395. 

irokv-xaXK(K : rich in bronze. 

9ro/Li7n}(7r€/iwr(i)) : escort,safe-guidance. 

voyeofwjL (irovos) : toil, am busy, am 
in the conflict. 

irovos: toil, labor, toU of battle, 
(in B 291) trouble. 

vovro-TTOpoi (ircipo}) : sect-going, sea- 
traversing. 

TTOKTOS : sea, high sea, 

TTOiroi : exclamation of sorrow, alas i 
or of joyful surprise, ah ! 

iropov aor., irtirpfofihfov perf., from 

^root Trap-: gave, furnished;, perf. 
pass, is fated. 

wop6€(a : destroy. Cf. vlpOia. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



87 



v6pK7/9 : ferule, ring which held the 

spear-point. 
iropo^: ford, 

TToparwtOf fat. partic. iropowcovcm : 

prepare, share. 
TTopris, -m : heifer, 
nop<l>vp€Oi 3 : foaming, dark, purple^ 
HoareiSatav, -covos : Poseidon, Nep- 

tunus, brother of Zeus, and god 

of the sea, A 400. 
Iloa-tSi/tos: of Poseidon, B 506. 
TTOtrts, -COS (wiv<o, iro") : drink, 
TTOCTL^, Ho$, dat. TTocrei, acc. pi. ttoouk: 

husband, 
TTorafuk: river. 

TTOTojopm, perf. ireTron/aiKU : fly. 
iroTc, TTOT or iroff : at one time, once, 

at some time, ct rrore if ever, ov 

iroTC or fiij TTOTC never, ov iro) irorc 

never yet, never before, 
irorepo9 : which of the two, E 85. 
noTi: prep. See irpoq. 
voTirSeYfjLfvoi : aor. partic. of Trpocr- 

Sexofuu toatV /or. 
7ror/uu>$ : deaih, 
wrvia (p o t - e n s) : mistress, honored. 

Title of respect, esp. of Hera. 
iroTW (irCvm) : drink, draught, 
irw: where? 

irau : anywhere, in any way, perhaps, 

irovAo-jSorcipa (jSoo-ico)) : feeding 
many, fruitful, 

flrouXv? [iroXvs] : much, 

7rav9, gen. 7ro8o9> dat. pL irocr{&)i and 
iro&€<r<n (pes) : foot, 

UpoKTW, a stream in the Troad 
which empties into the Helles- 
pont, B 835. 

ir/Da?ri8cs pi. : (diaphragm) ^ mind, 

trpiaPys, irpia-pa (p r i s c u s, presby- 
ter) : old, reverend, Superl. wpea- 

jSwTttTOS. 

Hfrfita, aor. irpiq<T€v : bloWj bum., 
trprtprff^, -c?: prone, on one's face, 
headlong. 



irprqcTcrta, aor. infin. irprj^ai [Trpeur- 
0*0)]: do, accomplish, achieve, 

UploLfuSTi^ : son of Priam, Hector, 
B 817, E 684. 

Upvapjoi : Priam, son of Laomedon, 
king of Troy, A 19, 255, B 37, 
160, 304, 332, 414, 788 ff., T 105, 
117, 146 ff., 261, 288, 303 ff., 314, 
A 165, Z 242 ff.. Y 237, X 27 ff., 
O 160 ff. 

wptv (wpo) : (1) adv. before, sooner, 
formerly; (2) conj. before. Some- 
times doubled, TrpCv (adv.) — vpiv 
(conj.) with infin. ov irpHv airtlxrei 
irpiv Bofievcu he will not (sooner) 
thrust off before you give, 

Trpo : adv. and prep., befQre, forward. 
With gen., before, in front of. 
voKv irpo <f>{\<av pa,x'^<r6<u fight far 
in advance of (his) friends, Aaov 
ipvKtiK€T€ irpo TTuiXamv check the 
people before the gate. 
Adv. before, forth: irpo fi hr^pj^ft 
sent me forth, ra irpo iovra the past, 
what was before, 

irpo-Palvm, perf. vpofiiprfKas: go 
before, surpass, 

wpo-PaXKin, aor. irpoPaXovro : strew 
before me, scatter, 

irpo-pipovXa : perf. of irpoPouXopxji 
prefer, A 113. 

irpo-pX.rjs, ^os (irpoPaXXia) : pro- 
jecting. 

Trpo-yevcWcpo? : older, comp. of Trpo- 

7rpo-8oKi; (7rpo3cp(ofuu) : watch, catch, 

place where the hunter lay in wait 

for game, A 107. 
irpo-irfKe : aor. of irpotiqpjL send fort\ 

let go, let fly a missile. 
irpo-eptooti}, aor. wpoipeooav : row 

forward, 

irpo-€pv<a, aor. irpoipvocrev : draw 
forth, draw down, launch (of 
ships). 



88 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



7rpor€^i aor. imv. of wpoirjfu send 

forth, let go, 
frpo-Oiavcri [TrporiOecun] : 3d pi. pres. 

ind. of irpoTiOrffu grant, allow, 

A 291. 

Upo^Qvp^iap, -opo9 : Boeotian leader, 
B495. 

TLpiSooii leader of the Magnetes, 

B 756 ff. 
irpo-^fitrf (fiviJuoi) : zecd, B 588. 
irp(Mdima, tut, wpdiaxl/ti, aor. Trpo- 

id^cv : send forth, send off. 
npoifffu, 3d sing, vpoiei, impf . irpo- 

ict, aor. irpoeiffKe, aor. imv. 7rpoe$ : 

send forth, discharge, let go, let fly 

a missile. 
npo-Cam^fU, /u>r. partic. rrpoon^mK ' 

set forth, place before the rest, 

A 156. ^ 
UpoLTOi : son of Abas, king of Ti- 

ryns, Z 157 ff. 
wpo-KoB-il^jfa : settle {forward), B 463. 
vpo-KoXiid and irpo-KoXC^ofua, aor. 

imv. irpo-KoXea-crai: call forth, 

challenge, 
irpo^paxiiiui (jrpoyiaxp^) : am chamr 

pion, fight in the front rank, 
irpo-fjuixp^ {pAxq) 1 foremost fighter. 
vp6fW9'' champion, foremost fighter. 
irpoirdpou9€(v) : adv. with gen., before, 

in front of. 
wpo^ds, -3ra<ro, -wav : all. Cf, a?ras. 
vpo^fnfjvi<i\ tsAy. forwards. 
7rpo-p€(o : flow on. 

irpoi, irpoTL, or irort : adv. and prep., 
to, toward, on, in addition, besides, 
moreover. 

(1) With ace, tOt toward: irpo^ 
TpOta^ rerpafi/jJvoi turned toward 
the Trojans, cT/u Trpos "OXvfiTrov 
1 will go to Olympus, PepXrjKti 
irpb^ oTrjOos had hit on the breast, 
irpos KoKrrov iKkivOrj leaned against 
the bosom, rrpoq Aio/ii^&a SipjaPev 
exchanged tvith Diomed, TOULvra 



9rpo9 d\Xi/Xov$ dyopevov said such 
things to one another. 

(2) With gen.,/rom; rifirjv apvu- 
pjEvoL irpioi Tpta<i3v winning satisfac- 
tion from the Trojans, irpo^ 
v<Ihuvol^ weave (before the eyes) at 
the bidding of another, eipvarai $€• 
futrras Trpos Atos defend the laws 
(before the eyes of, at the bidding 
of) in the name of Zeus, fmprvpoi 

IcTTWV TTpOS TC OcSiV ITpin T€ oyOptli- 

TTcov be witnesses in the sight of both 
gods and men. 

(3) With dat., on, at: worl yalrj 
dyicXtvas resting (it) upon the 
ground, ttotI yovvaxn by his knees. 

trpoo'-afLtvio : help, am of use. ov 
irpoa'afivvei makes no defence, 

TTpofT-aprqpm : dose fitting, perf . par- 
tic, of TrpoaupapLO-Ktu fit, E 725. 

TTpocr-av&iQ), impf. 'irpoinfpjSa : ad- 
dress, say to. 

irpoKT'Paivvi, aor. TrpoaPd^, Trpocrc^Si/- 
(Tcro : go to, step upon, 

Trpoa-eipjL (<dpi) : come on. 

Trpocr-ctTTOv or 7rpo(r€€i7rov : aor. of 
irp6a-<f>rjfu address, say to. 

irpiTOt(v) : adv. with gen., before, 
in front of 

irp6cr<ron forwards, 

irpocr-ifyrffu, impf. 7rpoar€<ly/f, aor. irpoa"- 
MravOTTTpoa'itLirov : address, say to. 

wpo<r-<f>(iiV€<i} : speak to, address. 

wpoTcpo^ (irpo) 3 ; comp. before, (bom 
before), older, the first of two, for- 
mer, oi irpQT€poL the men of for- 
mer days. 

irpfrripia : adv. farther, forward, 

vpoTi-pdXXofmi [Trpocr-] : punish. 

wpfyrCOrifu, 3d pi. npoOiownv: grant, 
allow. 

irpo-Tovos : fore-stay of a ship ; two 
of which held the mast in place. 

irpo-Tpiiroiwx, aor. trporrpaTrifrOauL ; 
turn toward, give myself up to. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



89 



irpo-<l>€p(a : carry off, bring forward, 

offer, cast in his teeth. 
9rpo-^cvya») aor. partic. rrpotfivycvTa : 

escape. 

irpo-^fnefv, -ovos {4^prqv) : with ready 
heart, zealously. Adv. irpo^povcois 
readily, graciously, zealously. 

irpo-xita : pour forth. 

irpvX.€€^ pi. : foot-soldiers. 

TTpvfivrf : stern of a ship. 

irpvfjLvqfTW 3 : of the stem, jrpvfivq- 
(TUL stemrhawsers. 

irpv/ivoi 3 : last, lowest part. yXakr- 
aav irpvfivqv root of the tongue, 
wpvfivov 0€vapo9 wrist. 

Upvnim, Hos : a Lycian, E 678. 

iTfH&qv : a little while ago^ *just now.* 

Trptail^d : day before yesterday, B 303. 

Ilpcoreo-iXaos : son of Iphiclos, a 
Thessalian leader, the first to fall 
in the Trojan war, B 698 ff. 

7rpo)TMrro5 (Trpairo?) 3 : first of all, 
the very first, irpwrurra adv. 

wpwTo^yovo^ iy€i^) : first-born. 

wpcoro-Trayijst -€5 (mf/KU/u) : just 
built, new. 

irpSrroq 3 {irpo) : superl. first, fore- 
most. TTpSiTW, TTpSn-Q. adv. with or 
without the article, first, at first, 
once, €v irpwT<^ P^f^ ^l 
end of the pole. 

Tnufievrj : aor. partic. of iriropai fly. 

iTTikeq'. elm. 

nrcX£(>?: (1) town in Thessaly, 

B 697. (2) Colony of the former, 

in Elis, B 594. 
irrtpow, -€xnra (irrtpov) : winged. 
irr€pv$, -vyos : wing. 
UrokepauK : son of Peiraeus, father 

of Eurymedon, A 228. 
uroKepXI^ui [^roXcfufco], fut. irroXxfU- 

(ofjL€v: wage war, fight. 
?rroA.€/io$ [ttoXc/aos] : war, battle. 
TTToXieOpov (voXiq) : city, town. 
irroKiirop$o9 (irifSta) : sacker of cities. 



uToXi?, -ios [ttoXis] : city, 
irruypa, -aros (?mxr<7a)) : fold. 
UTVKTO? (imxro"a)) : folded. 
TrrwTKau(fii : skulk, A 372. 
TTTwra-oi : cower ^ skulk. 
Uvypxuoi pi. (ttv^, mryfiy the distance 

from elbow to knuckles) : Pygmies 

(fistlings), the Liliputians of epic 

times, r 6. 
TTvOicrOaL: aor. inf. of irovBavopM, 

learn. 

TtvOia, fut. TTVorci : rot, cause to rot. 

JlvOiSi, acc. -^va : Pytho, the later 
Delphi, seat of the Pythian ora- 
cle (which is not mentioned in 
the Iliad), B 619. 

irvKa: carefully. 

TrvKai<f^ perf. partic. TretrvKoafieva: 
cover. 

iruK(i)vc>s 3 : thick, dense, strong, 

prudent, cunning. 
JIv\aifi€vrfq,-€09: kingof thePaphla- 

gonians, an ally of the Trojans, 

B 851, E 576. 
UvXaxoi : son of Lethus, a Pelasgian 

leader, B 842. 
thjXi; : wing of a double gate, pL gate. 
nvXiJny : Aetolian town, B 639. 
IluXio? : from Pylus, Pylian, A 248, 

A 293, E 545. 
JlvhiLytvrp, -cs: Pylus-bom, native 

of Pylus. Epithet of Nestor, B 54. 
ni^\o«: city on the west coast of 

Peloponnesus, home of Nestor, 

A 252, 269, B 77, 591, y 4 ff. 
TTvXos : gate (of Hades), E 397. 
irvparo^ : last, outermost, hindmost. 
irwOavofJuca, aor.- iirvOovro, redupl. 

aor. ireirvOoiTO : {ascetiain), learn, 
irvi : with the fist, in boxing, 
nvp, gen. irvpo^ : fire. 
Hvpal^ifi ' a Trojan ally, leader 

of the Paeonians, B 848. 
TLvpojcron : a Thessalian town, B 695. 
vvpyos : tower^ column of soldiers. 



90 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



irvpvj : funeral pyre. 

TTia : end. ever, yet, in any voay, Cf. 

iraiXco/Aoi, iter, impf . iroiXeo-iccTO (ire- 

Xofua) : go often, resort, 
wStfui: cover, 

7r4i>$: howf It often introduces a 

rhetorical question. 
7r(i)(s) : end. in any way, perchance. 

wv, -CDS : Jiock of sheep. 

P. 

p(£: end. form of &pa^ 
pia or p€ca : easily, at east.. 
pUdpov (/§«k>) : stream, 
p€l^ia,i\it, pe^eiv, aor. €p€$€ (f^pyw) : 

work, do, offer sacrifice, Kojcd ae 

pc{ovo-ev work ill to you. 
pew, impf. ipp€€y or p€€v : flow, 
prjfyiuv, -tvos : beach, 
prjyvvfu, int. prffifiv, aor. tppnt^fv, 

(nj^t (fpay-, f rango?) : break, 

break through. 
pTfiSliafi easily. 

'P17V17: mother of Medon (an ille- 
gitimate son of O'ileus), B 728. 

piyiio, f ut pTyrja-av, aor. piyrfa-e, perf . 
subjv. ippLYQ(n: shudder, fear. 

ptyujv : comp. more terrible. SuperL 
ptyurra most terribly. 

pip.i^\ swiftly. 

plvo^ : hide, skin, shield of ox-hide. 
'Ftinj : Arcadian town, B 606, 
ptirria, aor. pvfpt : hurl. 
pU, gen. pivo^i nose. 
•PoSios : Rhodian, B 654. 
poSo-SaHcTvXjc^ : rosy-fingered, epithet 

of Dawn ('Hoi?). 
'Pd&>$: Rhodes, an island off the 

southwest coast of Asia Minor, 

B654 ft, 
pori (p€<o) : stream, 
pv/jLOi (ipwa) : pole of a chariot. 



pvo-i-irToXis : defender of the city, 
Z305. 

•Pvruw: Cretan town, B 648. 
parfoXw 3 : torn. 

s. 

2ayyapi09 : the largest river in Asia 
Minor, except the Halys. It rises 
in Galatia and empties into the 
Black Sea in Bithynia, T 187. 

atucia-miXxK (ttoXXo)) : brandisher of 
the shield, shield-toielding, E 126. 

adxoq, -€os : shield, large oval shield. 
See cUm-ts. 

2aAa/u$, -tvos : island near the Jiar- . 
bor of Athens, B 557. 

2afio9 : island near Ithaca, B 634. 

0-009 [<Ti!)9] (sanus) : safe, sound, 

oooo), fut. (rooKrcis, aor. crdjtoore : save, 
rescue, bring off safe. 

'^^oLpwrfitov, -ows : leader of the South- 
ern Lycians, bravest of the Trojan 
allies, slain by Patroclus, B 876, 
E 471, 493, 629 ft., 655 ft,, 683, 
Z 199. 

Sarvioets, -cvros : a mountain stream 

in Mysia, Z 34. 
adffM,: clearly, exactly, hence truly. 
aao>r€/x>9 : comp. more safely, A 32. 
o-c ace, a-c9cv, a-eio, o"€o or crev gen. : 

of 2d pers. pron. av thou, 
(rePdCopjai, aor. o-cjSouraaro : fear 

reverently. 
aiPofua: am ashamed, abashed, A 242. 
o-cao: brandish. 

SeXayos : father of Amphius, E 612. 
SeXi/TTiaSi/s : son of Selepius, Euenus, 

B 693. 
a€\lvov : parsley, celery. 
ScXXiyas, -oros : (1) river in Elb, • 

B 659. (2) River in the Troad, 

B839. 

aevta, aor. i(ra-€va or o-cvc, perf. fo"- 
avpoLj iatrvpjfvov, plpf. Icovro: 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



91 



drive, pursue^ start; pass, hasten, 

rush, ailfjui laaeva drew blood, 
arjfjui, -aros: sign, token, character, 

monument, mound, portent, 
iTTjfuuvia (arjim) : give orders, 
injfwvriap, -0/D09 : commander. 
<rqir(o, perf. aricrrjirc: rot, perf. is 

rotten. 

Ifj/faafUKi Paphlagonian town, B 853. 

IS^oTos : town on the Thracian Cher- 
sonese, opposite Abydus, B 836. 

IS^cKcXos : son of Capaneus, one of 
the <Epigoni'; lieutenant of 
Diomed, B 564, A 367, E 111, 241, 
835, 1 48, n 586, ^ 511, 

trOivoi, -cos : strength. 

&iyaX6^€t!S, -cvro9 : shining. 

orlyiy: silence. aiyQ silently, 

<ri&ip€oq 3 : 0/ iron, iron. 

aCSvjpoq: iron, of an arrow-point. 
Iron was little used in the Homeric 
times ; see ^(oAkos* 

SiWiiT^cv: from Sidon, Z 291. 

SlSdvios 3 : Sidonian, Z 290. 

SiKvotv, -wvos : Sicyon, not far from 
Corinth, to the southwest, B 572. 

2t/AO€t9, -cvros: stream, rising on 
Mt. Ida, and uniting on the plain 
of Troy with the Scamander, 
A 475, E 774, Z 4. 

2ifu>curios : a iSrojan, slain by Ajax, 
A 474 ft. 

Stvrcc9 pi. : earliest inhabitants of 
Lemnos, A 594. 

^(Tv^os : son of Aeolus, father of 
Glaucus, compelled in Hades to 
roll uphill a stone, which contin- 
ually rolled back, Z 153 ff., X 593. 

(Tiros : wheat bread, 

arianrdio : am silent, 

a-utyjTQ : in silence, silently, 

Skocoi pi. : with or without mSXxu, 
the Scaean gate of Troy on the 
side toward the Greek camp, F 145, 
263, Z 237, 307, 393. 



axaiy (scaevus): toith the left hand. 
SKo/iavSpios : adj. 0/* the Scamander, 
B 465 ft. 

SicafuCi^pios: (1) Hector's son, whom 
the people called Astyanax, Z 402. 
(2) A Trojan, son of Strophius, 
E49fiE. 

'^dfULvSpoii (1) A Trojan river, 

uniting with the Simois, E 36, 774. 

It is called Xanthus by the gods. 

(2) The god of the river, E 77. 
'^dpffnj : small Locrian town near 

Thermopylae, B 532. 

bearing. Epithet of Hngs. 
atajfirrpovi sceptre, staff. Princes, 
judges, priests, an4.1ieralds car- 
ried oriajftrrpa. as symbols of au- 
thority. 

o'KiSrafuu, impf . IcriclSivavro (^aKc^dv 

wfu) : scatter, disperse, 
o'Kio-as, -CKTos: full of shadows, 

shadowy. 
o-KoVeXos: cliff, 

iTKairvri (o^xcir-): cliff, height from 
which an extended view can be 
obtained. 

aKoiro^ ((TKijrrofua) : spy, watcher. 

o-Kortos (o-KOTos) : adj. in secret, Z 24. 

o-K<fro9: darkness. 

a-Kvl^ofuu : am angry, 

SkcuAos : Boeotian village, B 497. 

a/iapayco>: resound, 

a-fupSaXw: frightful, terrible, arfjucp- 
SoXcW, oyicp&iXca adv. terribly, 

a-fi€p8v6^ 3 : horrible. 

S/uv^evs, -$09 : short form for ^fuv- 
Bw^opoi Mice-destroyer* Epi- 
thet of Apollo as the averter of 
the plague of field mice, A 39. 

apJbi&i,'iYY09: weal. 

ax>C: dat. of 2d pers. pron. av thou. 

SoXv/ioi pi. : warlike people, ancient 
inhabitants of Lycia, Z 184, 204. 

(Toos or oroos [crus] : safe. 



92 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



<r(k (cnf) : thine, thy. 

Sira^: capital of Lacedaemon, 
home of Menelaos, B 582, A 52. 
pL : ropes, cables^ B 145. 

cnrouD, aor. cnrocrcv, itnramiTO : draWf 
draw out, 

uwevSoh aor. subjv. cnrcMn;? : pour a 
libation (<nroi^). 

cnrcos, gen. cnrciovs or cnrccos : cave. 

(nrifrOajL : aor. iuf . of hropm follow. 

cnrcv&D : am in eager haste. 

frmvOi^p, -rjpoi : spark, A 77. 

airXdyxya pL: mVoZs, lung, heart, 
and Uver. 

oiroF^ ((fitcvSq)): libation, drink- 
offering. 

uirovSy (cnrttfSo)) : totVA difficulty. 
arajBfioi : «to6/c, «fa//, fartn-huilding. 
QTaxTKfv iter, aor., ora?, oTOKraiv aor. 

partic. : used to stand, look stand; 

from lOTtffU place, cause to stand. 
(rraT05 (urrrffu) : stalled, i.e. fed in 

a stall. 
fTTa<l>v\rf : plumb line. 
areiXav : aor. of (rrcAAoi send, place. 
oTcipa : keel, cut-water, 
<rrctx<i> : go, come. 

(TTcXXo, aor. (TTuXav : arrange, send. 

UrruL areiXavTo took in (furled) 

their sails. 
aT€fifm, -aros (ore^) : chaplet, filet. 
aT€vaxi^(i>: groan. 
OTtvdxw: groan. 

2rcrr(i>p,-opo9: a Greek before Troy 
with a voice as loud as fifty, E 785. 
(rripvay: breast. 

oTfv/mi, impf. irrevro: assert by 
word or manner, irrcvrat n Iwos 
ipiuv^^KTiop Hector acts as if he 
was going to say something. 

oTc^voQ), perf. corc^vomu (ore- 
tffoyoi) : crown, perf. pass, hcu 
been laid on as a crown, crowns. 

^rrrj : took (his) stand, stood, aor. of 
tarrffJUL place, cause to stand. 



-cos, loc. as gen. crrrfitaiw : 
breast. 

anjawm, on/ooFro: aor. of urrrffu 

place, cause to stand. 
frrripC^ia, aor. ccm/pi^c : lean against. 
imjSapos : stout, strong. 
arCKPia: shine. 
<rrixc5 pi. : rows, ranks. 
(rri\aopm, impf. iaTtxjSlivro: go in 

line, go, march, 
trropa, -aros : mouth, face. 
<rrofui;(os (stomach) : throat, 
arovaxi (orcmx**) • groan, 
crovos : groaning, groan. 
'S^parCrf : Arcadian town, B 606. 
OTparik : camp, army, 
arparoofjuu, impf. c<rrparoairro : am 

encamped, am on an expedition. 
(TTpctrro^ (oT/jc^) 3 : (twisted), 

well-spun. 
irTp€<l><o, fut. <rr/oc^c(r^e, aor. partic. 

arp€<l>$€tm : turn, mid. and pass. 

turn myself, turn around. 
crpovOo^: sparrow. 
ISrpd^ios: father of Scamandrius, 

E49. 

oTvycpos (oTvyco)) : hateful. 
OTvycQ) : hate, dislike. 
liTVfjL<lnfXoi : town in Arcadia, B 608. 
Sru£ gen. Srvyos ((mrycw) : Styx, 

a stream of the lower world, 

B 755, H 271. 
Srvpa pi. : town in Euboea, B 539. 
crrv^eXt^cD, aor. cotv^€\£^c : strike, 

thrust. 

av or Tvn;, gen. crcib, o-co, <rev, orc^, 

dat. croi, roC, acc. cc: 2d pers. 

pron., thou. 
avY-KaX€<o, aor. partic. avyKoXiuas : 

call together, assemble. 
<rvXxvw or crvXdm, impf. oiXo, fut. 

avXsfiarere, aor. opt. avXiiarebe: take 

off, spoil, strip. 
crvfifiaXkio, aor. imv. avfiPaXere: 

bring together, pour together, unite. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



93 



'Sv/i7f-$€vi from Syme, a small island 
to the north of Rhodes, B 671. 

frv/irfitayofuu [jcrvfifUyvvfu] : mir, 
mingle, of waters. 

(TVfi-^ds, 'irdatij -irav: pi. cUl to- 
gether. 

avfjL-TnjYvvfu, aor. crwem/^c : curdle, 
E902. 

<rvfi'<f>pdSiMi}v, -01/09 (4>pdiofMi) : coun- 
sellor, B 372. 

av/JL-<l>pdiofua, aor. avfi<f>paxT(raTo : 
form plans with. 

orvv: adv. and prep, with dat., with, 
together with, together : avv p tfia- 
Xov ptv<As dashed shields together, 
iX$m ow Trkcoveamv coining with 
more, ivtKrfa-ev arvv *AOi^ con- 
quered with A thenars help, <rvv vrji 
ifjLy TTC/uu/ro) will send with my ship, 
^XBt ow ayyeXtiy came with tid- 
ings. Cf. (vv. 

oTiv-ayo) : bring together, assemble. 

mjv-tifiL, impf . dual, orvin/v (ci/u) : 
go (or come) together. 

aw-€wrf$€ : aor. of avfimjywfu 
curdle. 

aw-ixda, impf. avv€)(pv, perf. partic. 

onn/oxcofcorc : join, come together. 

TO) <ti/jiQ) owoxtiiKOTt the shoulders 

drawn together. 
(rw^ca-Ltf: compact, injunction, 
aw^ptvofua : set (myself) in motion, 

A 332. 

avv-rC$€fua, aor. imv. avv$€o: give 

heed, attend. 
<rv9, gen. 0T09 (vs, sus, sow) : hog, 

hoar. 

ar<l>diio, aor. lo-^a|dv : cut the throat, 

slaughter by opening the large 

artery of the neck. 
a<^ciW gen., o'<^un(v) or o"^'(v) dat., 

crif}eas ace: pi. 3d pers. pron. 

them. 

<T<l>€r€poi and o-^os (affw) : their. 
(r<l>vp6v: ankle. 



iTxlxoi nom., ace, o-^omv gen., dat. : 
enclitic, dual 3d pers. pron. they 
two. 

crifim, 0*^0) nom., ace, aff^mv gen., 
dat. : dual 2d pers. pron. ye two. 

<r<lymT€poi: of you two, 

(Tx^SCrp^ : at close quarters, E 830. 

ISx^&os : son of Iphitus, a Phocian 
leader, B 517. 

(T^cSov : adv. near, at close quarters. 

ax^Oov, (TX'^Ot : aor. of c^w have, hold, 
check. 

axtrXuK 3 : terrible, cruel. 

iTxttpfi {oxfCfif schism) : cleft wood. 

(TxotaTo: refrain (cease) from, aor. 

opt. mid. of ^p(o) hold, check. 
Xxoivos : Boeotian t(Mrn, B 497. 
(TUifjuL, -aros : dead body, carcass. 

T. 

toll: for al, the, these, they. See 6. 

TaXajLfitvYf^, -€09 : a Maeonian, B 865. 

ToAalovi&^s : son of Talaiis, Mecis- 
tens, B 566. . 

raKajo'i-if^piiJV, -ows (^/w/v) : stead- 
fast. 

TaXa-vpliHK (f ptvos) : shield-bearing. 
TakOvPtoi : herald of Agamemnon, 

A 320, r 118, A 192. 
raXAa: by * crasis * for rot oXAa the 

rest. 

rafLCo-i-xpco^f -oos (rdfjLVfa): flesh* 
cutting, flesh-cleaving. 

TOfiCrf: house-wife. 

TofUTys (ra/AVQ)) : steward, master. 

rdfivto, aor. ra/xc [refivw] : cut. Vic- 
tims were slain in confirmation of a 
solemn oath, hence opKia rapuovrt^ 
concluding a solemn treaty. Cf 
foedus icere, ferire foe« 
dus, ^ strike a treaty* 

Tom^jTCirXos : with trailing robes. 

ravvio, aor. ravuo-aav : stretch, plac4 
along. 



94 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



TopcunrcD) aor. snbjy. ropo^, plpf. 
TCTpiyx^t: disturb (withcn/v) ; plpf. 
was in confusion. 

TopPifOf aor. rdpfiryrey: am fright- 
ened, fear. 

TdpvTf : Lydian town, at the foot of 
Mt. Tmolus, E 44. 

Tap^ : Locrian town, near Ther- 
mopylae, B 533. 

rdpffioif -C09 : thicket. 

Tav/D09 (taurus) : bull. 

Toxa : soon, quickly, presently. 

raxurra : adv. superl. of toxv, most 
quickly, very quickly, om raxurra 
as quickly as possible ^ quam 
celerrime. 

raxv^coXos: w$th swift horses. 

raxys, -uoL, -v : swift, fleet, 

T€ : enclitic con j . and. ri — tc, tc — 
Kflu are correlated, both — and. ri 
is appended to conjunctions, rela- 
tive pronouns and adverbs of time 
and cause in order to connect the 
clause closely with its antecedent. 
Cf. OS T€ just who. TC — T€ are 
sometimes combined with other 
conjunctions, as fjiev tc — Sc tc, 
fuv TC — dXAa TC, to show close 
correlation. Sometimes the exact 
force of TC is uncertain. 

Tcyci; : Arcadian town, perhaps the 
most important in Peloponnesus 
before the Dorian invasion, B 607. 

rcycos : covered, roofed. 

TcOrproTt^ (raifxov) : perf . partic. 
from the root Oav, astonied, dazed, 
stupefied with fright. 

TcOvcurf opt., TcOvTjSrra partic. : perf. 
of OvQCTKua die. 

T€iv<o, aor. (i)ruv€, plpf. TcraTo, tc- 
rdaOrfv : draw tight, stretch, stretch 
out. 

T€Lp<o: oppress, press hard, weigh 

heavily upon, distress. 
T€LX€<rir7r\TjTrfs ; stormer of walls. 



Epithet of Ares (Mars), £ 31. 
Tct;(id^ts, -co-cm : well walled, 
Tctxos, -cos : tocUl of a city. 
TCKC : aor. of tuctw, bring forth, bear^ 

beget. 

T€Kfuupofua, aor. Tcx/un/parro: ordain, 

r€KfJMp : surety, pledge. 

TCKvov : chUd, offspring, young. 

TCKOs, -<os (twcto)) : child, young. 

T€KTalvofiM, aor. TcicnjvaTo: build. 

TcKTwv, -ows : (Carpenter), a Trojan 
ship-builder, E 59. 

T€KTiay, -OKOS : artisan, carpenter. 

TfXafuav, -wvos : broad strap support- 
ing the shield or sword. 

TcXofuovtos : of Telamon. AZas Tc- 
Aofuiivios AJax son of Telamon. 

reXcios: (complete), unblemished. 

TcXcoD or TcXcQi, fut. TcXccoAu, aor. 
TcXco'oas, cTcXco-o-cv, perf. partic. 
TCTcXcoTAo/os : complete, fulfil, ac- 
complish. 

TcXif^ts, -co-cm : perfect, unblemished. 
rcXXo), plpf. ctctoXto: with cirt, 

enjoin upon, command, entrust. 
Te\oS) -cos : end, accomplishment. 
TCfKvos(Tc/£v<iD, templum): (ground 

set apart), consecrated ground, royal 

domain. 

TckSos: an island in the Aegean 

Sea near the coast of the Troad, 

A 38, 452. 
Tei/6fn^v,'6vois: father of Prothoos, 

a Magnesian, B 756. 
revioy, -ovros : tendon, sinew. 
Tco [tifos] : gen. of Tts who? 
Tcos [cros] 3 : thine. 
T€pa^, -aTos : sign, portent, 
rifyqv, -ctm : soft, delicate. 
Ttfym-Kipawoi (rpeirm) : wielder of 

the thunderbolt. Epithet of Zeus. 
T€fynx>fuu, aor. pass, subjv. rpavtuo' 

/xcv: take delight, enjoy myself 
Tta-cTapajcovra: forty. 
TcVcmpcs, acc. riaxrapas ; four* 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



95 



Ttraytav : redupl. aor. partic. from 
the root ray (tangere), seize. 

rtraxrOrfv, riravroi plpf. of rcivca 
stretch. ' 

rirapTO^ (rccrcrapcs) 3 : fourth, to 
T€TapTov adv. the fourth time. 

T€TT)Ka : perf . of tiJko) melt away. 

TerkrfKCL, imv. rirXaBi, partic. rc- 
rXiyoTcs : endure, suffer. See rXrf 

TcVficv: suor. found. 
T€Tf}afjLfjLcvoi : perf. partic. of rpen-cD 
turn. 

T€Tpa-TrX^: fourfold. 

T€Tf}a-<l>aXrfpoi : with four knobs (or 
protuberances), which seem to 
have been used to strengthen the 
helmet. 

TerpaxOd: into four pieces. 

T€rpri\ti'. was in confusion, plpf. of 
TopaxTfTio disturb. 

T€TplytoTa^ : with IXtava, uttering 
piteous cries; perf. partic. of rpi^o) 
make a shrill noise. 

Terra : my old friend, informal ad- 
dress to an elder. 

T€TTii, -Zyos : dcdda, locust. 

TervKTOj, perf., T€Tvyfi€vov perf. par- 
tic, T€TVKovro redupl. aor. : of 
r£v;(<tf buUd, make ready. tItvktoi 
is appointed. 

T€v [nvos] : end. gen. of tis any 
one, many a one. 

Tcu^pavtSiys : son of Teuthranus, 
Axylus, Z 13. 

-aKTos : a Greek, E 705. 

TcOjcpos: Teucer, son of Telamon, 
half-brother of Ajax, best bow- 
man in the Greek army, Z 31. 

TcvrafuSi/s : son of Teutamus, Lethus, 
B 843. 

Tcv;(os, -COS ' pl. arms, armor. 
Tcu;(<u, fut. inf. TeviearOax, aor. 

(1)t€v(€, T€T\5Koirro, MxOrfi perf. 

TervfCTtu : make, buildf make ready, 



appoint, cause; pass, is builtf ia 

appointed, occurs, is. 
Ttxyrj: art, skill, 
rg : adv. there, thither. 
n^Kto, perf. ren^Ka: melt away, waste 

away. 

Trj\€ (^tele-phone) : far, far away. 
nyXcdooHTtt : flourishing, f em. partic. 

of TijXeOabi. 
TiyXc-icXctTos : far-famed. 
Ti/Xc/uaxos: son of Odysseus and 

Penelope, B 260, A 354. 
TiyXo-^cv : from far away. 
n]\6-0i: with gen. far from. 
TrjX6-o'€ : to a distance, far away. 
ttjXjov : far away. 

TiyXvycTos 3 : last-hom, dearly be- 
loved. (Of doubtful meaning.) 

TrfpeCrj : a high mountain in Mysia» 
B 829. 

rtccTKcro : iter, impf . of tl<d prize, 
honor. 

TCOrifiL, fut. ft/o-civ, aor. (i)$rjK€, 
(i)^c<rav, aor. subjv. ftyjys, aor. 
opt. OeLrjv, aor. imv. Ois, aor. 
inf. Otivcu, BipjevajLi place, put, 
cause, make, put in order (with 

TiBrprri: nurse, attendant. 

Tucriii, aor. t€kov, It€K€s : bring forth, 

bear, beget-. 
Tlfm<t>, fut. Tl/Arjo'ov<ri, aor. Ttfirfoas T 

honor, gain honor for. 
Tl/i.rj: recompense, retribution, satis* 

faction, honor, 
Tivacro-o), aor. mm^c : pluck, twitch, 
livvfixu: punish. 

Ttvoh fut. TtataBax, aor. Tta^uxv, 
irtaaTo: pay the penalty, atone 
for; mid. exact satisfaction, pun' 
ish. 

TWTTC, TWTT* Or Tt^^ (t( TTOTt) I whyf 

why pray f 
TJpws, -Oo^ : town in Argolis, famous 
for its Cyclopean walls, B 559. 



96 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



fCsy Ti, gen. rco: interrog. pron^ 

whot whcUt els rl how long? rC 

(acc.) tohyt wkere/oret 
Ti9, Ti, gen. T€v : enclitic indef . pron., 

any one, some one, many a one. rl 

any, in any way, at all. 
nralvto : draw, stretch. 
Tirovos: mountain of Thessaly, 

B735. 

TiTOfnjaw : river in Thessaly which 

flows into the Penetis, B 751. 
TiTvaKOfiM: aim, 

rim, iter. impf. rUfTKtro, aor. h'Tmsi 
prize, honor, 

rXriiiAav, -ovoi : enduring. 

TkriTr6k€/ws : son of Heracles (Her- 
cules), leader of the Rhodians, 
B 653, E 656. 

r\i70x>fiai fut., (l)T\rj aor., rXoLry: 
aor. opt., rerkrfKas perf., rtrXoBi 
imv., rerhtfrrvs partic. (from'root 
' ToX-, cf. tuli) : hear, endure, suf- 
fer, dare, have the heart. 

TftMXoq : a mountain in Lydia, near 
Sardis, B 866. 

roft [ooc] : dat. of 2d pers. pron. <rv 
thou. 

Tot : asseverative particle, indeed, of 

a truth, I assure you. 
roll for oi the, these; or for oiwMo. 
Twydp : therefore, and so. 
TOWS 3 : such. 

TowrSe, i^Se, -ovSe : such, such as this, 
such as that. With infln. such as 
to. -& is * deictic' 

rocovros, rouLvrri, toujIvto : such, 

TOK^s pi. (twcto)) : parents. 

TOfiiJ (rcfiva)) : (cutting)^ stump^ 
A 235. 

rofov: bow, often pL referring to 
the various parts of one bow. Its 
manufacture from goat horns is 
described A 105 ff., where the 
bow of Pandarus is said to be 
about seven feet in length (some- 




Tdo-(o-)ov adv. 
roa-aovTo : 



what longer 

than the old 

English bow). 
ToawrSe, rooi^ • 

TO(r6vS€: equiv.j 

to ToaxK. -& j 

is < deictic,' so\ 

great as that 
Tocr(cr)os 3 : so 

great, so muchf 

so far, so long; 

pL often, so many. 
TooxrovToSj Too'axLvnjf 

equiv. to rocros. 
Tore: then, 

TovvtKa (rov €V€Ka) : therefore, on 

that account, 
ro^^pa : so long. 

Tpaireioficv [rapTro>ficv] : aor. pass. 

subjv. of TifmopajL enjoy myself. 
Tpd<l>€v [€T/)a<^i;ouv] : aor. pass, of 

rp€.f^, nurture. 
Tpd4>ov : grew up, aor. of rpc^. 
Tpcis, TpvoL : three. 

rpcTTQi, aor. Irpof/e, {t)Tpair€, perf. 
partic. T€TpafjLfA€tfoi : turn, turn 
from {my) purpose; mid. turn 
myself, turn. 

Tp€<l>ia, aor. ^pc^e and crpa^cn^i^, 
aor. pass, rpds^, rpa^ev [irpdstnf- 
oav] : nourish, nurture, rear. The 
2d aor. is intrans., grew up, 

Tpej^Q), aor. Ihpajjui : run, 

rpita : flee in fright. 

Tpn^pwv, '(ovos : timid. 

TfnjTos : of uncertain meaning ; per- 
haps inlaid, with reference to dec- 
orations; perhaps pierced, with 
reference to the mortise holes in 
the framework of the bedstead 
for the straps which supported 
the mattress. 

Tprfxis, 'ivos : Thessalian town near 
Thermopylae, B 682. 

Tprjx^ : an Aetolian, E 706. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



97 




Tfyrfxjk, -€ia: rough, uneven , jagged, 
Tpi-ykwxlv, -tKos: (three-edged), three- 
barbed, 

tic. TCTptyco-^ 
ra^: make a 
shrill noise. rpiyK^x^^. 
TtTplytora^ cXcctva uttering piteous 
cries, 
rpii/fcorra: thirty, 

Tp{K(K)rf: Thessalian town, B 729, 

A 202. 
TpinrXyi threefold, 
rpk : three times, thrice. 
Tpur-KajL-ScKa: thirteen, 
TptTaros (rpiTOi) 3 : third, rpirarot 

those of the third generation, 
Tplroyivaa : Trito-born. Epithet 

of Athena (Minerva), A 515. 

It is perhaps best treated as a 

proper name. 
TpCrov : with to, third, for the third 

time, 

TpCxpL : in three parts. 
rpix^s : nom. pi. of OpC( hair, 
rpiyfia', in three parts^ into three 
pieces, 

Tpot^i/v, -5*^' Troezene, town in 
Argolis, near the coast, B 561. 

TpoCirjvo^: son of Ceas, father of 
Euphemns, B 847. 

Tpottf : (1) the Troad, in the north- 
west comer of Asia Minor, with 
Bios as its capital, 162, 237, 
r 74, 257, A 175, Z 315. (2) Hios 
itself, A 129, B 141. 

Tpopjos (jpipm) : trembling. 

Tpoxpn (Tp€)(<a) : wheel. 

rpv<f>aXaaL: helmet, 

TpoxuorTp^aSespL: Trojan women, 

TpSk^, -wv pi. : Trojans. 

Tp<^3: Trojan. (Or, Tpwo«.) 

Tpcoio? : ofTroSy E 222. Tp<i)iot finroe 
horses which Zeus gave to Tros 
in exchange for Ganymed. 



Tpok, gen. Tpox^s*. king of Troy, 
son of Erichthonios, father of 
Ilus, Assaracus, and Ganymed, 
E265. Seep. X. 

Tvyxpanaf aor. partic rv;(i7(nx9, 2d 
aor. (2)rv;(c: hit, hit upon, plv 
ovra rv;(a>v hit and wounded him, 
ru^c dpjoJSouo fiaBtlrp struck in 
deep sand. 

Tv8a'&;s: son of Tydeus, Diomed, 
E 1, 281. 

TuSevs: son of Oeneus, father of 
Diomed ; one of the • Seven 
against Thebes,' B 406, A 365 ff., 
E 126, 800 ff., Z 222. 

TVKTos (T€vj((tf) 3 : toell-mode, tvkto0 
KOKov a thorough eviL 

rvfi^os (tomb) : buried mound. 

rinnff [otT] : 2d pers. pron., thou, 
(rvtmo): E 887. 

TvirrfiD, aor. rv^c : smite, strike. 

tvtBos : little, young, rvrOov a litde. 

Tv<^Xo9 : blind, Z 139. 

Tv^(i)cvs, -€os: Typhoeus, a giant 
buried by Zeus beneath a moun- 
tain. His efforts to rise cause 
earthquakes, B 782 ff . 

Tv^e* rvx^otK ! aor. of rvyx&m hit, 
or Tw : adv. then, therefore. 

T&9: adv. thus, rcos is related to 
(S« as TOi to oT* 

Y. 

Va/ATToXe? : town in Phocis, B 521. 
vjSpis, Hos: insulting conduct^ inso* 
lence, 

vypos : watery, liquid. 

vSpo^i water-snake, 

vifop, gen. v&iros : water. 

vios, gen. vto9, dat. vie, vi&, acc. vlov, 
voc. v(€, dual vie, pi. nom. vie?, 
vices, vlcis, dat. vlam, acc. vleas^ 
vlas: son, 

viawo^ (yioi) : son*8 son. 



98 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



'^YXrf : town on a height near Lake 

^ Copais, B 600, E 708. 

vXrfi tooad, forest. 

hXt^^j -€0"cra : woody. 

vficis or v/ui/Acs, gen. v/uctW, dat. 

vfuv, v/jLfu(v) : pL 2d pers. pron. 
^ youy ye. 

i/jL€r€poi or v/Aos (vfuU) 3 : your. 

wnu: for viro under. 

wr-atfTcriOy aor. partic. virai jds : c^arf 

from under. 
vir-arrioco, aor. partic. viravruuTas: 

/ace, tfitfef, Z 17. 
viraros 3 : mo9£ At^A. 
vn^cScurav : aor. of wroSoISa) ^car 

a superior power, 
vir-ciko), fut. uTCt^/xoc, aor. subjv. 

inrocC^ofjuEy I concede, yield, give 

way. 

vwtip^to: for wrep^xfi^ hold over, 

tower above. 
v7r€Lp-oxoi : preeminent, Z 208. 
"Yircipov, -ow : a Trojan, slain by 

Diomed, £ 144. 
vjT-cic : out from und^r, away from. 
vir<K-^ipiih impf . virc^c^pov : hear 

out of, carry away from. 
vir-€K-^euy(i), aor. rnriK^nryt : escape. 
WT'fvtpBt^v) : adv. beneath, from 

under. With gen. 
wrip : prep, with acc. and gen., over, 

above, beyond, contrary to. 

(1) With acc, xnrlp wfjw rjXvee 
diccDic^ iyX^<^ «pear point came 
above (over) the shoulder, varep 
aX<rav beyond what is fitting, wrkp 
opKta contrary to the compacts. 

(2) With gen., or^ {nrkp kc^oX^ 
took his stand above (his^ head, 
aripvay xnrkp pa^oio breast above 
the nipple, iKarofifirp^ p^ioA inrkp 
AavoMv sacrifice a hecatomb in be- 
half of the Greeks, inrkp (rWcv 
cl<r)(€ oLKovw I hear reproaches on 
thy account (abotU thee). 



vTTtp : for \nrip, when it follows its 
case. 

vwep-aXXopM, aor. partic. vwipaX- 
fjuam : leap over. 

wr€p-P(uriri (yirtpPalvia) : transgres- 
sion. 

"Yircpcca : spring at Pherae in Thes- 

saly, B 734, Z 457. 
\nr€p-€)(ia or xnr€ip€)(iui, aor. subjv. 

xnr€p<rxgi hold over, tower above. 

oi xupas vir€p€i)(€ held his hands 

over him, i.e. defended him. 
VTTcprqvopim, -orros (ytrip, amip) : 

haughty. 

^ir€prjairf : an Achaean town on the 

Corinthian gulf, B 573. 
vTTtpBtiy) : above, on top. 
virip-Ovpjos : high-spirited. 
vir€p-Kv8avr€$ : glorying overmuch, pi. 

of vircpmJ&is (kv&)9). 
virtp-pjeyri^, -€5 (fiew)s): all power^ 

ful. Epithet of Zeus. 
v7r€p-fjuopa : beyond what is fated, 
xnrtpofjrXtrj : arrogance, pi. arrogant 

acts, A 205. 
wrip-ayrji aor. subjv. of wr€p€)(io 

hold over. 
xmtpi^laKcyi : insolent, man ofviolence^ 

ri06. 

\m€pmov (virip) : upper chamber. 

vir4uTqv, wrcorav [wrconToav] : aor. 
of v^urrrfpM, promise. 

vir-€)(<a, aor. partic. inroa^iav: hold 
under, put mares to the stallion. 

vir-i/vctKav : aor. of vTro^cpo bear 
away from danger, E 885. 

v7r-urxy€opm, aor. imv. vTrdo^eo, aor. 
inf. xnrofrx^iuOax : promise. 

virvoi (somnus) : sleep. 

VTTo and vmu: adv. and prep, under, 
beneath: viro ypcov Ippaxa vrfiap 
took props from under the ships, 
viro S* tppara rayvcrmv {stretched) 
placed props beneath, vird ISco-kc 
always looked down, \nro rpopas 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



99 



elXcv *Axtuov$ trembling seized the 
Greeks beneath (i,e, in their knees), 
VTTO x^wv Kovafiiie the earth rum- 
bled beneath, vtto Tpa>€9 xcKa- 
Savro the Trojans toithdrew before 
(him), 

(1) With ace, wro <nr€09 ijXaorc 
fjojXa drove his flock under (the 
shelter of) a cave, viro {vyov 'qyaye 
led under the yoke, wro *lXiov rjXOe 
came under the walls of (i.e. to) 
llioSj wro Tci^os dyayovra leading 
under the tocUl, xnr oariov rjXvff 
aK<i>icq the point penetrated to the 
bone, xnro KvAAi/n;? 0/D09 at the 
foot of Mt, Cyllene, virtu 7roSa*I&;s 
at the foot of Mt. Ida, 

(2) With dat., wo irXaravixma un- 
der a plane-tree, xnr ovpavw beneath 
the heavens, wro TfuaXxo at the foot 
of Mt, Tmolus, clrmv virb ^i/yw 
placed under an oak, wro X^P^^f 
wro SovpC under (i,e. by) hands, 
spear, wro TvSct&y icXovcokto <l>d- 
Xayyc? the ranks were driven be- 
fore the son of Tydeus, 'Ev/jLfjXoi, 

TOV VV 'AS/JLT^<a T€K€ "AXjCtOTl^ 

Eumelus whom Alcestis bore to 
Admetus, 

(3) With gen., under, by, wro tc- 
Xofiayvos under the strap, BvQfTKOvrts 
v<l> "l^KTopoi slain at the hands of 
Hector, vQcs KovdPrjaav avardvrtov 
wr ^A)(aLUov the ships resounded as 
the Greeks shouted (as a result of 
their shouting), OavofACvajL xnro Av- 
Kovpyov smitten by Lycurgus, iri- 
Xcfcvs ftciv Sea Sovpos xnr avipoi 
the axe (goes) is driven through a 
beam by a man. 

vTTo: for vjTO in some instances 

when it follows its case. 
xnro-pXrfirqv : interrupting, A 292. 
. V7ro-3ci8o>, aor. vTrcScurav, plpf* virc- 
SciSumv : fear, shrink before. 



vToS^xpfmi, aor. vireSc^aro: receive, 

xnrc&pa : askance, darkly, 

VTTO-ciSf o/icv : aor. subjv. of varcucoi 

yield, give way, 
*Yirc$rjPax\ Lower Thebes, situated 

on the plain, B 505. 
xnro-Kvo/mi, aor. partic. viroKvaa- 

fihnrj : become pregnant, conceive, 
xnro-XcvKoIvo/jm : grow white, E 502. 
wro-Xwa, aor. vireXvo-c, xnrfXxtarao: 

loose beneath, loose from under, 
xnro-/i€Vio, aor. xnrifjjavav : stand my 

ground, 

xnro^€irTrf(j»T€^ : perf. partic. of vira- 

im/oxro) crouch under, B 312. 
vinnrAaicw 3 : lying at the foot of Mt, 

Placus, Z 397. * 
wro-oTCvaxtlfd) : groan beneath, rumble 

beneath, B 781. 
xnro-aTp€if}io, aor. opt. xnroarpGlftws ' 

turn around, turn back, 
xnr6-<r)(€o, xnroa^iaOai : aor. of wre- 

crxyiofua promise, 
v7ro-o7(€0"i5, -105 (vwurxyiopjoA) : a 

promise, 

xnro-axwv : aor. partic. of VTre^co hold 
under. 

vrra-TpOTTOs : coming back, back. 
viro-<f>€pio, aor. xnrqyciKav : bear away 

from under impending danger. 
xnror-^pita, aor. wrexiaprforav : retire, 

withdraw, 
xnT-wj/UK : despised, an object of con- 
tempt, r 42. 
vnTios (supinus): on one^s back, 

backwards, 
*Ypirf: Boeotian town near Tana- 

gra, B 496. 
*Ypptvri : town in the northern part 

of Elis, B 616. 
"Y/OTUKtSj/s : son of Hyrtacus, Asius, 

B 837 f . 

wrfjivrf, local dat. wrpXvi : battle, cor^ 
flict. 

wrfdvrp^ : to battle. 



100 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



vararos 3 : superL of vurepo^, Uut, 

hindmost, vorara adv. for the 

last time. 
voTcpos : later, vartpov adv. 
v^aivia : toeave, ireuriv v^mlvw " set 

forth before all." 
vt^Tfytaxos : charioteer, Z 19. 
vf^flliJLf aor. partic. v^cktcs : let 

doum, lower, 
w^Umiiix, aor. wcon/v, xnriunw 

[vircon^oay] ; promise. 
{nlh€fi€<lifi^, -C9 : high-roofed. 
v^rijAos 3 : high. 

*Ytjnjvtapf -opos: a Trojan, son of 
Dolopion, E 76. 

^^hlXn^^ (7X«*>) • ^w^'^y neighing. 

UjnrPpe/jJTrf^ (fipifna) : high-thun- 
derer. Epithet of Zens. 

v^i-{vyo9 (Ivyov) : high-ihroned. Epi- 
thet of Zeus. 

wj/t^irvXos (in^rf) : high-gated. 

wlf-^pwf>o9: high-roofed. 

vijfdvi adv. At^ft. 

<f>aav$€v [lifHiiyOriauv'] : aor. of 

civQ) ^cui^, gleams. 
4>a.y€ : aor. of co^icd tfa/. 
fftaeivoi 3 : flashing, shining. 
ffHuSifUK : illustrious, glorious. 
4>airpf, ^Kupuev : opt. of <^/eu ^ay. 
^vb^, -oiros : E 152. 
tfiaivia, aor. lifnpfe, aor. pass. (e)^n7, 

perf . sing, irif^avrax : «Aoto, cati^e 

to appear; pass, appear. 
^aurro9: son of Boms, an ally of 

the Trojans, E 43. 
^ourros : Cretan town, B 648. 
^^oXayi, -ayyos (^phalanx) : ranifc, 

column. 

^oXos : nW^6 of metal on the helmet 
which strengthened the helmet 
and held the crest. (Others in- 
terpret as visor). 



<l>av [2^aaav] : impf. of ifnffu say, 
{think). 

<l>dvff, <f>av€VTa: appeared, aor. pass. 

of ^(uv(i> show. 
^ao9,-eo9 [^<«>«] I light, light of safety. 
fjMpirpn/): quiver. 

^opis, -UK : Laconian town, B 582. 
fjidpfwxoy (pharmacy) : drug, herb. 
^apo«, -cos: cloak, worn only by 

princes. See xAatm. 
^f>dffyavw. sword. 

^ooav, ^ro impf., <l>aar$ai inf. : of 

^/u^ say, assert. 
f^Tvri'. manger. 
^€j9a/uu: flee. 

$c&7nros: grandson of Heracles, 
B 678. 

<fKi8o/mi : spare (with gen.), 
(^ev) aor. Ittc^kc, Trc^vc/xev, perf. pi. 

irc^vnu : M/, «/ay. 
^cKcos : Arcadian town, B 605. 
^€pat: Thessalian town, B 711. 
^cpcfcXos : son of Tecton, E 59. 
<f>€pi(rTOi : best. {fUpurre good sir. 
^cpTaro9 : superl. best, bravest. 
ifUfrrtpoi : comp. better, more power- 

M- 

^^{0, fut. oio-ei, aor. subjv. eveucu), 

aor. inf. cSxripjevoA: carry, bear, 

bring, carry off, draw. 
^euyoi, fut. fl>€v(ovrou, aor. i^xyov, 

perf. partic. 'n'€il>vy/jJvov : flee, 

escape. 

tjnj [^^] : impf. of ifyijfu say. 
^i; : as, like as. 

^riym, -^os : son of Dares, slain by 
Diomed, E 11 f£. 

<^eyo9: o/oaik, E 838. 

^)^yo9 (fagus): oak-tree, oak. 

<fnffu, opt. ^"i/v, partic. ^ws, 
2d sing. impf. €4>y<T$a, 3d sing. 
^ [^^], 3d pi. ffniv [?<^ao-av] : 
say, assert (believe, often of an 
incorrect view). See cnrov and 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



101 



^/a, gen. 4nfp6q (fty/a, fera): wUd 

animal (used only of Centaurs). 
^pT^ : Messeuian town, £ 548. 
^prfTva&fp : son (or grandson) of 

Pheres, B 763. 
<f)$ay<a, aor. partic. <l>Odfuvoi : get 

the start of^ anticipate, fi e/SaXe 

<f>6apj£yoi hit me first, 
^Btri\ (1) Thessalian town on the 

Spercheiis, home of Peleus, B 683. 

(2) Country about the town, A 155, 

169. 

^tT7V& : to Phthia. 

€f>Oivv$(o, iter. impf. €f>Oivv$€<TKe: con- 
sume, waste away, perish. 

<f>$tvio, fut. if}$ta-€t, plpf. i<l>$uiTo: 
waste away, perish, die; fut. de- 
stroy, kill, 

^ipiav or ^€ip<ov : a mountain in 
Caria, B 868. 

ffiOUr-riviiip, -opo9 • man-de- 

stroying, . 

^oyyq: voice. 

ifiOoyyos: voice, 

^ovito : grudge, deny, 

-<^(v) : inseparable suffix, ending of 
an old instrumental case. Added 
to the stem of a noun, it forms a 
genitive and dative in both sin- 
gular and plural, which is gen- 
erally used as an instrumental, 
ablative, or locative case. 

^tXco), iter. impf. ^tXcco-jcev, aor. 
<fHkrf(ra^ c<^tXaro, <I>iXxil, ff^iXrjOcv 
[c^cAi^ft^oav] : love, entertain as a 
friend. 

^\a-Krcav(i>raro9 (icTeavov) superl. : 

most greedy of gain, A 122. 
^tXoKTrjT7f9 : a famous bowman, 

who had the bow and arrows of 

Heracles, B 718. 
^iXo-fifici3i;?, -€5 : laughter-loving. 

Epithet of Aphrodite (Venus). 
^iXos 3 : dear, beloved, pleasing ; as 

subst. a friend. Superl. ff^Xraroi, 



^t\os is often used in Homer in 
a familiar tone, where the less 
emotional English idiom would 
not use dear, but it is distinctly 
more than the possessive pro- 
noun, and part of the original 
coloring is lost if it is rendered 
simply by thy, his, etc. It is 
a standing epithet with words 
which denote relationship, or a 
part of the human body, or the 
mind. 

^iXorri^, -lyros : love, friendship, hoS' 

pitality. 
<l>[X,m: gladly. 
€f>\6y€o^ {il>\6$) : flashing, 
^oio9 : hark of a tr^je, A 287. 
^Xoio-jSos : din of battle, 
<i^piopjajL, aor. i^oPrjBev [itfioP-jOrf- 

<rav], <l>ol3rj$€L^ (<^^o¥) : flee in 

fright. 

^d)8os: Flight, brother of Terror 
(Aciftos), A 440. See *A/m;s. 

^d)^o¥ : flight. Not simply fright. 

<l>6l3ov^ : to flight, 

^oiPfK'' Phoebus, (shining). Epi- 
thet of Apollo. 

ifxKVti, -Zkos : purple. 

^otraa>: go to and fro, wander up 
and down. 

<f>oXjc6s : bandy-legged, B 217. 

<^vos: slaughter, 

<^o¥ : peaked, B 219. 

^pPv • fodder. 

if>op€ii}, iter. impf. tftopieaKOv (^€pa>) : 
bear, carry, wear, draw, carry 
of- 

^pKv^, -vvos : a leader of the Phry- 

gians, B 862. 
^pfuyi, -tyyos : lyre. 
^oci)« or better ^009 (^009) : light. 
^doxr-8c : to the light. 
i^paXiopm, aor. imv. f^paxrax: make 

clear to myself^ consider^ plan, 

think. 



VOCABULARY TO THE 



102 

gen. <f>p€voq : the diaphragm as 
seat of intelligence and feeling, 
ifitfMf, heart; often in pi. 
^(yrfTfnii dat. t^prfrpnti-^v (f rater) : 
clan, 

<f>pl<T<Tio, peii. partic. as pres. ttc- 

<l>plKvuu: bristle. 
^poviiD {i^prfv) : thinks consider^ plan. 

ffnXa <f>pov€iaVf cv <f>pov€wv foeU" 

disposed^ friendly. 
^pvyes pi.: Phrygians, B 862, 

ri85. 

^pvyCti'. Phrygia, district of Asia 

Minor, T 184. 
4>v [l^v]: gretci, aor. of ^ixo piAt 

forth, oL if}v ^€ipi {grew to) 

clung to his ^and. 
<l>vy€y ^vyoi : escape, aor. of ^cvyco 

Jlee. 

^vij (^vb>) : form. 

^X^crj: Thessalian town, B 695 ff. 

^XoK&qs: son of Phylacus, Iphi- 

clus, B 705. 
^vXaxoi : a Trojan, Z 35. 
f^vXaxTcrm : guard, watch. 
^ActSj/st «on q/* Phyleus, Meges, 

B628. 

^Xevs: son of Augeas, father of 

Meges, B 628. 
<l>vXXjoy (^1X0, folium) : leaf 
<l>v\ov (^VQ)) : tribe, race. 
^vXoiris, -cdos: din of battle, battle' 

field. 

ifivariaiio, partic. ^v<7io<i>mi9 : snort. 
^vfTi^oo^ (^vft), {(tfiy) : life-giving. 
^vroAii/ (^vrov) : vineyard or or- 

^vrcvctt, aor. c^vrcixmv (^vrw) : «ct 

<^v(D, f ut. ^vo-ct, aor. perf . irc^v- 
flurt, plpf . irc^vKci : />m< /brf A, caiise 
to ^ot<7 ; aor. and perf. grow, and 
also 4>vei in Z 149. 

^iceis, gen. ^com/ov pi. : PhocianSf 
people of Phocis, B 517. 



<l><ay4ii), aor. ^lavrj^cv {^vq) : xpeaiE:^ 
/e^ one'j roice sound, fuv ^n/oas 
^poarfo^ he lifted up his' voice and 
ciadr^ssed him, 

<l>(innj: voice. 

if>4ky gen. ^a>ro9 : man. 

X. 

xdiofjuu, aor. kckoSovto, aor. par- 
tic. ;(ao'(ra/uvo9 : withdraw, give 
way, 

yoLViii, aor. opt. ;(avoi : yawn. 

"Xplpfa, aor. ^x^Lprq, -xaprforav, aor. opt. 
Xapurf, K€)(<LpouiTo : rejoice, am 
delighted. )(a[p€T€ hail, the cus- 
tomary form of greeting. 

XpLLTrf : pi. hair, mane, 

yaXemuvio : am angry. 

XoXcTTO? 3 : hard, harsh, cruel, 

XaXK€o^iOfyq(, -TfKfK : clad in bronze 
breast-plate, 

XaAxco9 or ;(a\Kao$ 3 : of bronze, 
bronze, bronze-pointed (of a spear). 

;(aXK€o-^a>vo$ : with brazen voice, 
loud-voiced, of Stentor, E 785. 

XaXxcis : with ayijp, smith, worker in 
bronze, 

XakK-^fniSf -cs: bronzed, fitted with 
bronze, bronze-tipped, 

XoXki-s, -tiSos : (1) principal town of 
Euboea, B 537. (2) Aetolian 
town, B 640. 

XaXxo-Pani^, -cs: toith bronze (cov- 
ered) threshold, 

XaXKo-Kopv<rrqs {Kop-vcnrw): helmeted 
with bronze, in bronze armor, 

yoXKOi : bronze, copper. Bronze was 
the most important metal of the 
Homeric age, for armor, weapons, 
tools and utensils. Iron was but 
little used. 

XaKKO-xCrm, -ovos : (unth bronze 
Clinic), with bronze breast-plate, 
bronze-clad. 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OP THE ILIAD. 



108 



XoAxcoWrtaSi/s : son of Chalcodouy 
Elephenor, leader of the Abantes, 
B 541, A 464. 

)^a/AaSts : to the ground. 

Xa/Aa^c : to the ground. 

^afmC: on the earth, on the ground. 

yav^ayiOy aor. i^aj^e : check, contain. 

^(u/oi : aor. opt. of "xpuvu} yawn. 

XapdSfyq: ravine. 

'Xaprq, X"P*"7 • X^P^ rejoice, 

)(aLpt-€is, -€VTos : graceful, beautiful, 

pleasing; superl. ^^oLpUirraTOi. 
•XapOtfiiwx, aor, opt. yapltrcuro, perf . 

partic. K€)(apixTyL€U€. : do a favor, 

gratify, give gladly; pass, am dear. 

i/uo Kcxa.puTik€v€ OvfjM delight of 

my heart. 
XOfHS) -iTos, acc. ;(apiv: grace, favor. 
Xdpmsi the Graces, goddesses of 

grace and beauty, E 338. 
Xop/io, -aros (xoupo)) : joy, delight. 
X^M (X°^P^^ • {joy of battle), battle, 
"Xdpoiro^ : father of 

Nireus, B 672. 
Xouro-a/Acvos : aor. 

partic. of 

fixu withdraw, { 

give way. 
XaTL^io: lack, desire. 

swollen withrains 

and melted snow. 
\€LfjL€pU)^ 3 : of win- 

ter, wintry. 
^cifiw, -«i)vo9 : win- 

ter. 

dat. pi. x€Cp€iTfn 
or X€.p<Ti\ hand, 
arm. x^H^^ 
dvcuTx^y with 
uplifted hands. 
This was the 
usual attitude 
of prayer. 




Xttpitiv, -iovos : a centaur, famous for 
his knowledge of medicine and 
divination, teacher of Asclepius 
(Aesculapius) and Achilles, 
A 219, A 832. 

Xcp€iore/909 : comp. worse, inferior, 

X^pitiiiv, -ovoi : comp. worse, inferior. 
rax^pecbva wk^ worse plans prevail. 

X^PV^y dat. x^PV^ X^PV^ • comp. 
worse, inferior, an inferior, a sub' 
ject. 

X^ppjo&jov (x^Lp) : stone. 

X^p-vLTTTOfmi, aor. x^pvopavro (^Cp) • 
wash my hands, A 449. 

X^pvCi dat. pi. of x^p hand. 

XCfxros : the land, shore. 

X^io, aor, fx^fv or ty^'tst, ^wro, perf. 
K€xvvrax, plpf . Kexyo : pour, heap 
(of a fimeral mound), throw into 
a heap, avv opKui ix^vav broke 
(threw into a disorderly heap) the 
oaths, dp.<l>l vlov cxcmro Tny^ca 
threw (her) arms about (her) son^ 
hajcpv weeping, 

X^fieis : for xot 17/XC69 we also. 

XT^Vt gen. xijvo^ » goose. 

X^IPV • ^^^^fi widowed, widow. 

Xyfpofo, aor. xijpftxrc (xnPV) • 
make deserted. 

Xrjpfixmjs : distant relative, E 158. 

x5^os, -€os : lack, want. 

xOiio^ : adj. yesterday, x^t^a adv. 

xO<av, gen. x^ovo^ • earth, ground. 

XifMipa : the Chimaera, a monster 
slain by Bellerophon ; described, 
Z 179 ft. 




Xifiatpa. 



104 



VOCABULARY TO THE 




xCfwjLpa: a she^goat, Z 181. 

^rwVf -iovoi (^cotton) : tunic of linen; 
the principal male garment, often 
the only garment worn at home. 
The )(i'^<av worn under the war- 
rior's armor, was short ; that worn 
in peace was long <and ungirt.* 

xAoTm: cloak^ mckn 
mantle, TJiis was 
often dyed purple, 

trailSf guts, 
X0X09: {gaJ^^^mM^ri\ 
anger, 

;(oAocD, fut. ii 1 . \i ■ VfrxTc* I 
fuv, aor.pailiL^ ^^oA^o*- 
(Tofievos, ^ti. par- 
tic. Ke)(oKiiipiivm^ futJB 

ger. Pass, and mid. 

am angry, 
XoA.a>ros: angry. 
Xopov^ : to the dance, 
Xopos (^chorus): dance, 
)(paMrfii<i}, aor. )(paia'/jje : avail, help, 

ward off a foe from another. 
Xpo-wo, aor. subjv. )(pav<ry: wound 

slightly, graze, 
X/ociw, -<W5 (x/oiy) : need. 
-Xprf : necessity, (Generally used like 

Xprj cart, it is necessary, one ought. 
Xpofuoii (1) sou of Pi*iam slain by 

Teucer, E 160. (2) Son of Neleus 

and Chloris, A 295, X 286. (3) A 

Lycian, slain by Odysseus, E 677. 
Xpofusf -10s: a leader of the My- 

sians, B 858. 
Xpovoi: time, 

Xpooi gen» * XP^ ^^^y 

body. 

Xpiva-dfMTvi, -vKos : with golden front- 
let (head band). 
Xp'v<r'aopo^ (aop) : with golden sword, 
;(pi$<r£(i)os 3 : golden. 



XAcuva. 



Xpyfrrj: town on the coast of the 
Troad with a temple to Apollo, 
A 37, 100, 390, 431, 451. 

Xpvcn/is, -tSos : daughter of Chryses^ 
captured by Achilles, and give» 
to Agamemnon, A 111, 143, 182j 
310, 369, 439. She is never called 
by her own name. 

Xpvcr^ios : flashing with gold. Per- 
haps, with golden reins (ijvla). Epi- 
thet of Artemis, Z 205. 

Xptari^: priest of Apollo at Chrysa^ 
A 11, 370, 442,450. 

XpvfToSpovoi', goldenrthraned, 

Xpv<ros: gold, 

Xpilk, gen. xpoo^ ' skin, body, 
XWTO : aor. of x€<» pour. 
XUTos (x***) 3 : heaped up. 
X^iXo^i lame. < 
Xiooiwx, aor. exoKmro: am angry, am 

full of rage. 
X<i>p€<o, aor. x^PV^^' 9^^^ way, 

X(it>po9 : place, space. 

ij/d^Ooi I fern, sand, 
ij/e^o^: 3 : sparse, B 219. 
ij/ev^T^g, -€s (^€v&)fiai) : false, Har^ 
A 235. 

ij/ev^fmi, aor. partic. il/cvaxLiUvrj: lie, 
\ff€vh6pL(vo[ i^MJcn, say falsely. 

ij/cvSog, -€09 : lie, deceit, 

• ^^f^^^t soul, life, Tov IXc- 
irt tjruxri the breath of life left him, 
i.e. he fainted, 

ipvxpogi cold, 

a 

<3: interj. 0/ used before the voc. 
&: interj. followed by /xot or irontM, 

expressi n g surprise or displeasure^ 

Oh! alas! 



FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ILIAD. 



105 



cDSc: thus, in this way, as follows. 

cSSc — cSs so — as, as— 'OS, or cSs — 

cSSc as — so, 
ctttfco), aor. &r€(v), wmro: thrust, 

drive off. 

wiyvxnnreiim'pf.oiclyvvfuopen. (Per- 
haps ^yvwTo should be read.) 
(cJicv?) : adv. quickly, swiftly. 

'OnoXc^: Boeotian village, B 501. 

'Oiccavos : Oceanus, god of a broad 
stream which flowed about the 
earth, and was also called Ocea- 
nus, A 423, r 5, E 6. 

^Krfiev [taici^OTfauv'] : aor. of oiic€<u 
inhabit, colonize. 

iOKv-fJuopoq : (of early death), short- 
lived. Superl. (OKVfjuopunuTos. 

ioioMropoq : swift, stmftly sailing (of 
ships). 

<i#ci>irov5, -TToSos : swift-footed, fleet. 
lOKv-pooi (p^<^) • swiftly flowing. 
(tfKvs, (tficca or (ok€ux, (ukv : swift, fleet. 
*QXj£vCri vfTpTf : said to be the peak 

of Mt. Scollis in Achaea near the 

frontier of Elis, B 617. 
*nXeyo$ : Aetolian town, B 639. 
cSXccm : aor. of SXXvfU destroy, lose. 
ii/jiXrfcra: aor. of o/uXco) am with, 

associate with, 
iofioderifii, aor. ifwOenja-av (cu/ao?) : 

place pieces of raw meat (upon). 
Zfwq, gen. and dat. dual. oyuKiv: 

shoulder. 
iifjLoq : raw, uncooked. 
(ofw-if>dyoq (^yciv): raw-flesh-eating, 
^/juoiev : aor. of olfjuaf^io groan. 
Arqcra^ : aor. of ovLvrffU help, please, 
onnumv : aor. of otto^o) grant, 
wrrrftmv : aor. of mrrdm roast. 
^Opai pi. : the Hours, Seasons, door- 
keepers of Olympus, £ 749. 
wpcfdro: aor. of opeyyvfa reach, 

stretch out. 
ifyqi season (of spring). 
wp€<mv : dat. pL of Sap wife. 



ippmve: impf. of opprnvia revolve, 
ponder. 

lappjQTo impf., iapp.ifo't aor. : of oppAiin 

rush, hasten. 
(opwTO impf., (opae, tapro, ^ipope aor. : 

of opwpjL rouse, excite, mid. arise, 

hasten. 

(OS or & : adv. thus, so, in this way. 
<us — (tfs thus—as,oxw^ — Smas — 
thus, 01$ avrcDs thus in like manner. 

(09 : adv. as. (1) It is used to in- 
troduce relative and comparative 
sentences in the sense of as, like 
as, often corresponding to a m, 
Tws, or ovro). (2) As a conj., it 
introduces (a) temporal sentences, 
as, when ; (h) dependent declara- 
tive sentences, how, that; (c) pur- 
pose clauses, in order that; and 
\d) wishes, that, would that! 
When it follows its noun in the 
sense of like, as, it is accented 
e.g. Otoi mas a god. When it thus 
follows the noun which it modi- 
fies, it generally makes the pre- 
ceding syllable long by position. 

&rav, Jxraro: aor. of (o^eo) thrust, 
drive off. 

iis d: as if. m ircp : Just as. 

(5s rc : as. Just as. (Never, so that.) 

(JrciXi;: wound, 

*12tos: son of Poseidon (Neptu- 
n u s) , brother of Ephialtes, E 385. 

cDvr<)s : for 6 avros that very one. 

cSrpvvc : aor. of orpivvfa impel, arouse, 
urge on. 

^€\(k)ov or (S^ciXok: ought, aor. 
of o^€iX(i> owe. It is used with 
alOe and cjs to express a wish 
which cannot be realized. 

^Xero : imp. of oixopM go away. 

<»f)($7f(rav: aor. of oxOiia am otU of 
temper, vexed. 

lixpo^: pallor, paleness. 

&ff, gen. wroi : /ac«, countenance. 



PERRIN AND SEYMOUR'S 

SCHOOL ODYSSKY 

Edited, Willi &itrod«etifn, VotM, and VocabvlMy, 

By Professors PERRIN and SEYMOUR 

of Yale Universify, 

Books I.-IV. Square i2mo. Half morocco. Illustrated. 248 pages. 

For introduction, $1.25. 
Books I.-IV.; 1X.-X11. Square i2mo. Half morocco. Illustrated. 

351 pages. For introduction, $1.50. 

The "School Odyssey" resembles Seymour's "School 
Iliad," with the slight modifications which study and expe- 
rience have suggested. It is issued in two editions, — one 
of Books I.-IV., corresponding in amount to Books I.-III. 
of the Iliad, with tolerably full notes ; and another, identical 
with the former, but with the addition of Books IX.-XIL, 
and 189 lines of Book XIII., with concise commentary, which 
corresponds to the edition of Books I.-VI. of the Iliad. The 
text is that of the College Series of Greek Authors. The 
commentary was written by Professor Perrin. The introduc- 
tion and vocabulary were prepared by Professor Seymour. 
The book is fully and attractively illustrated. 



SEYMOUR'S SCHOOL ILIAD. With Introduction, Commentary, 
and illustrated Vocabulary. 
Books I.-111. Square 1 2mo. Half leather. 371 pages. For intro- 
duction, $1.25. 

Books I.-VI. Square 1 2mo. Half leather. 478 pages. For in- 
troduction, $1.60. 

SEYMOUR'S HOMERIC VOCABULARY. A ConcUe Vocabu- 
lary to the First Six Books of Homer*s Iliad. Square i2mo. 
Cloth. 105 pages. For introduction, 75 cents. 



GINN & COMPANY, Publishers, 

Btotton. New York. Chicag^o. Atlanta. Dallat. 



GOODWIN'S GREEK GRAMMAR 



By WILLIAM W. GOQDWIN, 
Eliei Profencr ^ Greek LUeraiure in Harvard Unioersiiy, 



Revised and Enlarged Edition, xsmo. Half morocco.^ ^ PM^* 
For introduction, $1.50. 



This work is offered as the best Greek Grammar for 
preparatory schools and colleges that reasonably can be 
demanded in the present state of our knowledge and 
experience. 

Attention is called to the following important points of 
this edition : — 

Goodwin's Greek Grammar is complete. It does not 
require the student to get the author's Moods and Tenses, 
as it contains as much on these subjects as any elementary 
Greek Grammar does or should. 

The relative degrees of prominence that should be given 
tp the various aspects of grammar have been carefully con- 
sidered of late years, and the new edition of Goodwin will 
be found in accord with the soundest ideas on this subject. 

Changes have been freely made where improvement could 
be effected. For instance, a great part of the section on 
the verb has been remodeled and rewritten. 

Particular attention has been paid to improvements in 
the Syntax, and the chief increase has been made in this 
department. 

A radical and marked improvement has been made in the 
numbering of sections. 

BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

Qoodwin's Moods and Tenses. Rewritten and Enlarged. 8vo. 
Cloth. 464 pages. For introduction, ^2.00. 



GINN & COMPANY, PubUshers, 

Botton. New York. Chicago. Atlanta. Dallaa. 



Exercises in Qreek Composition 



With Notes and Vocabulary. 

By EDWIN H. HIGLEY, 

Master in Groton School^ Groton^ Mut. 



t2mo. Cloth. 170|Mise8. For Introduetloii, $1.00. 



^HE book is in two parts, Syntax of Verbs and Syntax ot 
w Nouns, with a brief introduction on Arrangement, and the 
Uses of Prepositions, Conjunctions, and Particles. It is designed 
for preparatory schools and for early courses in college. 

After the example of recent German works, the exercises are a 
series of episodes following the narrative of Xenophon's Anabasis 
through the seven books, to which are added similar exercises 
based on passages from six books of the Hellenica. The exer- 
cises are not translations from the text, but the text furnishes the 
theme and most of the words and phrases, to which, however, other 
words or expressions belonging to Xenophon's diction are added. 

The book offers thus a somewhat wide range in its subject-matter 
and vocabulary, while preserving unity in both, — based as it is, 
upon the acknowledged standard of Attic prose. 

A feature of the work is a copious English-Greek vocabulary in 
which the accompanying constructions are in most cases indicated. 
It is believed that this will do much to promote accuracy, save time, 
and facilitate labor on the part of the student. 

A grammar lesson on the chief constructions to be used is pre- 
fixed to each exercise, and other grammar references are given in 
the notes and the vocabulary. 

For those who desire a shorter course, twenty lessons are indi- 
cated which include all the regular constructions of Verbs and 
Nouns. The book is designed, however, to furnish material by 
which the teacher can extend and vary his course according to 
special aims and needs. Full indexes of the subject-matter and 
of the syntactical constructions presented are provided. The sen- 
tences, while avoiding involved and difficult constructions, are yet 
long enough to admit of some attention to connection, symmetry, 
and other elements of style. 

In brief, the special features offered are : 

(1) A comprehensive scheme of grammatical study ; 

(2) Variety and unity in the subject-matter of the exercises ; 

(3) A copious English-Greek vocabulary. 



aiNN a COMPANY, Publisher, 

Boitoa, New York, and Chicago. 



ANABASIS An illustrated Dictionary to Xenophon't 

_ A T^%7 An abas is , with Groups of words 

Die riON AKY etymologically r«Uted. 

By 

JOHN WILLIAMS WHITE, Professor of Greek, and 
MORRIS H. MORGAN, Assistant Professor of Greek 
and Latin, in Harvard University, 



zamo. Cloth, ago pages. For introdnction, $x.a5. 



This Dictionary is not a compilation from other vocabularies, 
but is made on the basis of a new collection and examination of all 
the words in the Anabasis itself. It contains all words found in 
any of the principal editions now in use both here and in Germany, 
with every meaning which each word has in the Anabasis, and 
with full references to the passages in which they occur. 

The articles on geography, biography, and especially on public 
and private antiquities, are fuller than is usual in such a work, 
and are illustrated with nearly one hundred cuts taken from the 
antique. 

This Dictionary is also bound with Goodwin and White's New Anabasis. 



John TetlOWy Head-Master of Girls* 
Latin School^ BastoHy Mass. : If all spe- 
cial vocabularies were like this, there could 
be. and would be, no question as to their 
title to supersede the lexicon as a speedy 
and trustworthy guide to the full inter- 
pretation of an author's meaning. 

B. W. AtercromUe, Principal of 
Worcester Academy^ Worcester y Mass.: 
Altogether the very best I have ever seen. 
Leaves nothing to be desired. It must 
prove to be of the i^reatest helpfulness to 
the work in Greek m preparatory schools. 

F. W. FreetMini, Master in Latin 
School, Boston, Mass. : This Vocabulary 
is decidedly the most perfect and satis- 
factory I have ever seen in any text-book. 

F. E. Welles, Professor of Greek, 
State Normal School, Geneseo. N.Y.: 
The most admirable book for language 
students. 



William McAfee, Professor of Greek, 
Claverach CoUege, N.Y. : It will set the 
example for an advance all along the line. 

Walter B. Jacolw, Teacher of Greek, 
High School, Providence. R.I.: Un- 
doubtedly the best thing of its kind. 

E. J. Feck, Principal of Free Acttd- 
emy , Owego, N. Y. : A most valuable 
addition to our preparatory Greek text- 
books. 

A. EaCfene Helen. Teacher of Greek, 
High School, FitchSurg, Mass. : Supe- 
rior in every respect to all others. 

E. E. Wolfe, Collegiate Institute, Fort 
Edward, N.Y.: The teacher could ask 
nothing better. 

Theo. L. Seip, President MuJUenherg 
College, Penn. : The very best. 

William R. Tyler, Principal of 
Adams Academy, Quincy, Mass.: Most 
valuable. 



CINN & COMPANY, Publishers, 

Boston. New York. Chicago. Atlanta. Dallas. 



THE FIRST GREEK BOOK 

BY 

JOHN WILLIAMS WHITE, 

Professor of Greek in Harvard University, 



Sq.xsmo. Cloth. sg3+62 pag^es. lUuttrated. For introductioB, $1.95. 



The lessons in this book have been graded with great care. Each 
new lesson is built upon the preceding lessons. The author has aimed 
at a systematic development of the subject, following an even and 
regular gradation from the simpler to the more difficult and complex 
lessons. Each lesson consists, by the rule, of a statement of gram- 
matical principles, a vocabulary, exercises, and reading lesson. The 
principle has been to give only such fundamental facts of grammar as 
the student must know before he can begin to read the connected 
narrative of Xenophon intelligently and with pleasure. 

The average number of words in each lesson is only ten. Only those 
words have been given which are really important. By the rule they 
are words that occur frequently in the first eight chapters of the Anab- 
asis, or words that occur eight times or more in the whole of the 
Anabasis. All the information about the word that the pupil needs at 
this stage of his progress is given in the special vocabulary. 

A set of brief rules of syntax with illustrative examples is given, to 
which references are made in the body of the book. 

Only those principles of syntax are developed which are so peculiar 
to Greek as to be really difficult. In the body of the book no stress is 
laid on the development of the syntax of any other part of speech than 
that of the verb. In the general vocabularies the aim is to give full 
information. Particular attention is called to the Greek-English 
vocabulary. 

The book is very fully illustrated, but not primarily for the sake of 
embellishment. A great deal of study was devoted to this part of the 
work. The pictures are constantly referred to in the vocabularies. 
These have been selected from the best sources. 



B. L. Cllley, Teacher of Greek, 
Phmips Exeter Academy : I Hke it, and 
if I start with the beginners next fall I 
shall use it. 

H. C. Havens, Instructor in Greeks 
Preparatory School^ Lawrenceville^ 
N.J. : It is in my judgment unsurpassed 
in clearness and conciseness, and is 
admirably arranged, being well adapted 
for use in classes of all grades. 



Chas. B. QooM, Professor of Greeks 
Albany Academy ^ Albany ^ N. r. : I am 
delighted with the First Greek Book and 
shall certainly sound its praises to all 
teachers of Greek. I cannot put the case 
too strongly. 

R. A. Condit, Professor of Ancient 
Languansy Coe College^ Cedar Rapids^ 
Iowa: I luive used many preparatory 
Greek books, but this excels them all. 



GINN & COMPANY, Publishers, 

Boatoa. New York. Chicago. Atlanta. Dallas. 



GREEK TEXT-BOOKS. 



nrrsoD. nice 

Baird: Greek-English Word-List $0.30 

Collar and Daniell : Beginner's Greek Composition 90 

FOoge : Greek Composition Tablet 20 

Flagg : Hellenic Orations of Demosthenes 1.00 

Seven against Thebes 1.00 

Goodwin : Greek Grammar 1.60 

Greek Moods and Tenses 2.00 

Greek Reader 1.50 

Goodwin and White : New Anabasis, with Illustrated Vocabulary.. 1.50 

Selections from Xenophon and Herodetus 1.60 

Greok School Classics Series : Bain's Odyssey, Book YI 35 

Gleason's Gate to the Anabasis 40 

Sewall's Timon of Lucian 50 

trsLrAinf^ ; Strouff and Weak Inflection in Greek .60 

Jebb : Introduction to the Study of Homer 1.12 

liddell and Scott : Greek English Lexicon, $9.40 ; Abridged 1.25 

Kicolson : Plutus of Aristophanes 80 

Bizo-Bangab^ : Modem Greek Method 2.00 

Seymour: Homer's Iliad (School Edition) with Vocabulary, 

Books I.-in., $1.25; Books L-VI 1.60 

Language and Verse of Homer 75 

Homeric Vocabulary 75 

Sidgwick : Greek Prose Composition 1.50 

Tyler : Selections from Greek Lyric Poets 1.00 

White: Begmner's Greek Book, $1.50; First Lessons 1.20 

First Greek Book 

Oedipus Tyrannus of Sophocles 1.12 

Passages for Translation at Sight, Part IV 80 

White and Morgan : Anabasis Dictionary 1.26 

Allen : Wecklein's Prometheus Bound of Aeschylus, $1.40. 
Beckwith : Bacchantes of Euripides, $1.25. 
Bennett: Xenophon's Hellenica, Books V.-VII., $1.40. 
B'Ooge : Antigone of Sophocles, $1.40. 
Byer: Plato's Apology and Crito, $1,40. 



I 

8> 
I 



Flan: Euripides' Iphigenia among the Taurians, $1.40. 
Fowler : Thucydides, Book V., $1.40. 
Hnmphreys : Clouds of Aristophanes, $1.40. 
Lodge : Gorgias of Plato, $1.65. 
Manatt: Xenophon's Hellenica, Books I.-IV., $1.65. 
Morgan : Eight Orations of Lysias, $1.40. 
Morris : Thucydides, Book I., $1.65. 

Perrin: Homer's Odyssey, Books I.-IV., $1.40; Books V.-VHI., 
$1.40. 

BicluurdBon : Aeschines against Ctesiphon, $1.40. 

Seymour : Homer's Iliad, Books I.-ni., $1.40; Books IV.-VI., $1.40 

Smith: Thucydides, Book HI., $1.65; Book VH., $1.40. 

Towle: Protagoras of Plato, $1.25. 

Editions of the Text are Issued separately. Each) 40 cents. 



The above list is not complete. 

CINN & COMPANY. Publishers. 

Boston. New York. Chicago. Atlanta. Dallas. 



GREENOUGH'S NEW CICERO 

KBVISBD BY 

J. B. GREENOUGH, Profetsor of Latin m Harvard Univertify, 

AND 

GEORGE L. KITTREDGE, Professor 0/ English in Harvard 
Unwtrsiiy,formorfy Professor of Latin in PhiUips Exeter A cadon^. 

WITH A 

SPECIAL VOCABULARY, By Professor Greenough. 



xsmo. Half morocco. Ixv + 478 + 194 pages. Illustrated. 
For introduction, $1.40. 



This new edition of Cicero has been treated with special reference to 
the use of the orations as models of classic oratory. The Introduction 
is made to help in this study of applied logic and rhetoric. There is a 
full life of Cicero, describing his education and development as an orator, 
as well as his political career. There is a chapter connecting the style of 
the orations with ancient formal rhetoric. There is also a chapter on 
Roman oratory and the place of the orator in ancient civilization. 

The text includes the following orations : The Manilian Law, four 
orations against Catiline, Archias, Milo, Marcellus, Ligarius, the four- 
teenth Philippic, and copious extracts from the Defence of Roscius and 
the Actio Secunda against Verres. 

Almost everything admitting of graphic presentation has an illus- 
tration, and no little study has been expended in finding the most suit- 
able pictures. Views of places, scenes of Roman life, and portraits have 
been specially sought. Many coins are shown. The illustrations are 
fully explained in the Index, with criticisms. 



J. H. Weetcott, Professor of Latin, 
Princeton University^ Princeton^ N.J. : 
I shall recommend the use of it in the 
Princeton Preparatory School. 

Prank Smalley, Professor of Latin, 
Syracuse University ^ Syracuse , N. Y. : It 
is a fine book, splendidly illustrated. It 
will give me pleasure to recommend it to 
teachers in preparatory schools. I have 
seen no edition of Cicero that has pleased 
me more.- If I were called on to teach his 
oiations I would surely use this bocdc. 



A. Q. Hopkins, Professor of Laiin, 
Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y. : The 
whole make-up of the book is attractive, 
and it will be welcomed as a valuable 
contribution to the undergraduate study 
of Cicero. 

W. B. Owen, Professor of LeUin, La- 
fayette College, Eiuton, Pa. : The many 
beautiful illustrations make a prominent 
feature. I am especially pleased also with 
the excellent chapter on Roman consti- 
tution. It will add greatly to the value 
of the woik. 



GINN & COMPANY, Publishers, 

Boston. New York. Chlcaco. Atlanta. Dallas. 



GREENOUGH'S 

NKW VIRGIL 

KDITBD BY 

J. B. GREENOUGH, Pro/esscr of Latm m Harvard UnioersUy, 

AND 

GEORGE L. KITTREDGE, Professor of English in Harvard 
Universiiyt formerly Professor of Latin in the 
PhiUi^ Exeter Acaden^, 

ABNBID, Books I. -VI., with a tpecial Vocabulary. lamo. Half morocco. 
Illuttrated. xlv+709 pages. For introduction, $1.50. 

ABNBID, Books I.-VI., Bucolics, with a special Vocabulary. Illustrated. 
xlv+807 P&gCB* For introduction, $1.60. 

This new edition of Virgil contains a longer Introduction, dealing 
fully with his life and times, his art, his literary influence, and similar 
subjects. A special aim of the introduction and notes is to introduce 
the student to a literary study of Virgil and so open the way to a fruit- 
ful reading of the classic authors generally. The learner is skilfully 
introduced to scansion. Full information and practical directions are 
given, and, in particular, English prosody is made the gate to Latin 
prosody. 

The notes have been faithfully revised. The grammatical references 
have been made to fit the latest editions of the grammars. 

A special feature of the notes is the attempt to illustrate by quotations 
from a wide range of English poets. Virgil, thus studied, should become 
a most valuable aid in the general literary culture of the pupil. 

Close and discriminating care has been given to the illustrations. Fac- 
simile reproduction has been largely employed in this edition as the only 
satisfactory process. Fine engravings on wood have been presented 
where the subject allowed, and the pictures as a whole are believed to 
possess remarkable power and beauty as well as illustrative value. 



B. P. Crowell, Professor of Latin, 
A ntherst College , A mhersty Mass. : 
Worthy of being heartily commended to 
every teacher and student of Virgil. 

W. B. Owen, Professor of Latin, 
Lafayette College, Easton, Pa.: In 
every respect it is the best Virgil with 
whidi I am acquainted. 

Charles P. Lynch, Teacher ofLaiin, 
High School, Cleveland, Ohio: The 
book is one of rare qualities, not only as a 
Latin book, but as an English text, for the 
side lights silong the line of English litera- 
ture are especially pleasing. 



Wm. A. Houghton, Professor of 
Latin, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me.: 
I have examined it with care and am pre- 
pared to recommend it cordially. 

E. C. Benson, Professor of Latin, 
Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio: The 
book is worthy of all commendation. 

D. O. S. Lowell, Instructor in Latin, 
Latin School, Roxburyi Mass. : I have 
long tried to teach the great poet in as 
literary a manner as possible, and this 
book emphasizes just the points which 
have been too long neglected. 



GINN & COMPANY, Publishers, 

Boston. New York. Chicago. Atlanta. Dallaa. 



Preparatory Latin Composition 



By F. P. MOULTON, A.M., 

Ttacher of Latin m the Hartford High School, 

WITH REVISION AND EDITORIAL ASSISTANCE BY 

WnXIAM C. COLLAR, A.M.» 

Head-Master Roxbury Latin School, 

12mo. Oloth. ziii + 142 pages. For introdnotion, 80 oents. 



This book has grown out of the author's own experience, ahd has 
been prepared in accordance with the most advanced aims and methods 
of teaching I^tin composition. 

The exercises are designed and graded to accompany the daily work 
of translation, and contain ample material for the fullest preparatory 
course. The book contains connected passages based on each chapter 
of the first four books of Caesar, and on six orations of Cicero ; there 
are also supplementary exercises for sight tests. 

While the words, idioms, and constructions required in translating 
into Latin may all be found in the text, the author has avoided the 
mistake of merely putting together parts of different sentences, taken 
from the text unchanged, which the pupil may hunt up and put to- 
gether without knowing the construction of the sentence. 

The exercises have been carefully constructed so as to preserve the 
narrative, style, and spirit of the original. The utmost care has been 
taken to lead the pupil to observe, appreciate, and use the proper con^ 
junctions and pronouns which mark the transitions from one sentence 
to another in Latin. 

It has been the constant aim of the author to lead the pupil to ac- 
quire a working knowledge of grammar, so that he may rely more upon 
himself and less upon the teacher. Instead of telling the pupil, for 
instance, whether to use the subjunctive or infinitive, reference has 
been made to the grammar to the principle involved, so that the pupil 
learns his grammar as he needs it, and applies it as he learns it. 

The plan has been adopted of giving numerous cross-references, to 
foster the habit of comparing various passages in which a given con- 
struction, or idiom, occurs, — a practice invaluable to the student at 
every stage df his progress. 



GINN & COMPANY, Publishers, Boston, New York, and Chicaio. 



THE FIRST LATIN BOOK 



By W. C. collar, 
Head-Master of Roxbury Latin School^ 

AND 

M. GRANT DANIELL, 
Recently Principal of Ckauncy Hall School, Boston, 



ismo. Cloth. 286 pages. Illustrated. For introduction, $x. 00. 



This is an ideal text-book for teachers of Latin, for it 
enables them, while following a rigorously scientific method, 
to impart interest, freshness, and variety to the teaching of 
the elements of the language. 

It is an ideal text-book for beginners in Latin, for by its 
use they are able to master the rudiments of the language 
with ease and rapidity, and without the usual tediousness 
and drudgery. 

The reasons why this book stands the test of the school- 
room are : 

Because it is brief, simple, and attractive, and at the same 
time thorough and scholarly. 

Because at an early stage it introduces easy reading les- 
sons to illustrate forms and principles already studied. 

Because it presents continuity in the separate exercises 
for translation into English and into Latin, introduced as 
early and followed out as fully as practicable. 

Because it distributes difficulties and secures great scope, 
variety, and flexibility in practice by bringing forward cer- 
tain of the pronouns and certain constructions that are 
usually deferred till later and massed together. 



GINN & COMPANY, Publishers, 

Boston. New York. Chicago. Atlanta. Dallas. 



ALLEN AND 
GREENOUGH'S 



LATIN GRAMMAR 



FOR SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES. 



Founded on comparative grammar. Revised and Enlarged by 



JAMES B. GREENOUGH, 
Assisted by 



GEORGE L. KITTREDGE, 
Professors in Harvard University, 

xsmo. Hmlf leather. 488 pages. For introduction, $x.9a 

This is offered as a thoroughly satisfactory manual for preparatory 
schools and colleges, and it is believed to combine excellences of di- 
verse kinds in such a way as to be the closest possible approach to an 
ideal grammar. 

First. This has always been regarded as the truest and soundest of 
Latin grammar manuals. Instead of making arbitrary laws and distinc- 
tions in order to secure an artificial clearness of statement, this gram- 
mar has been faithful to the spirit and the facts of the language. This 
is its fundamental excellence. The grammar explains the language 
instead of trying to make the language bear out the grammar. 

Second. The present edition is as strong in class-room availability 
as it is for linguistic truth. George L. Kittredge, Professor of English 
at Harvard, was associate reviser, and largely on account of his com- 
bining special qualifications in Latin and in English, the style of the 
grammar was radically improved. It is believed to be now much clearer, 
more crisp and definite, more interesting and leamable, than any other 
grammar. 

Third. Even in all the little points, the closest care was taken in the 
revision, and scarcely a book can be found in which the excellence is 
so uniform and in which the finish reaches so faithfully to the minutest 
details. 

Fourth. In a word, the consensus of competent opinion seems to 
fully justify the belief that Allen and Greenough's Latin Grammar is 
clearly the best : best for scholarship, convenience, completeness, and 
beauty; best for reference ; and best for regular study. 

Tracy Peck, Professor of Latin in William A. Packard, Professor of 

Yale university: The essential facts of Latin in Princeton University: I find it 

the language are stated with great clear- essentially improved by the revision and 

ness, and there is a rich sug^estiveness as the additions it has received, and regard it 




as an unsurpassed compendious grammar 
for use in our schools and colleges. 



GINN & COMPANY, Publishers, 

Boston. New York. Chieaco. Atlanta. DallH. 



COMPANY'S OIASSICAI i^tlflS* 

By A. Keith Johnston, LL.D., F.R.G.S., aided by W. E. Gladstone, 
recently Prime Minister of England. Contains also a Geography of 
the Ancient World, prepared by William F. Allen, late Professor 
of History in the University of Wisconsin. \ Revised by eminent 
British and American Scholars. (7^ X 1 2 inches.) For intro- 
duction, boards, ^1.25; cloth, $2.00. 

CompleteBefit Accuracy, Uniformity, Diftinctnets, Biiralyility, 
Beauty, and Cheapneas. 

This Atlas consists of twenty-three plates, colored maps, 
and plans of all the important countries and localities re- 
ferred to by classical authors. It embodies the results of 
the most recent investigations. It has a full Index of 
Places, in which the proper quantities of the syllables are 
marked by T. Harvey and E. Worsley, MM.A. Oxon., 
Classical Masters in Edinburgh Academy. 

This Atlas also contains Allen's Geography of the 
Ancient World, which is designed to bring the leading 
epochs and events of ancient history into connection with 
the geography of the ancient world. Brief suggestions to 
teachers are added, to assist in the work of the class-room. 



Spectator: It has the special 
attraction of Mr. Gladstone's co- 
operation, who not only placed at 
the editor's disposal the illustra- 
tions to his work on Homer, but 
enhanced the favor by revising the 
proof-sheets of the plates and text, 
as adapted for this Atlas. 

Tracy Peck, Professor of Latin, 
Yale University: I have heretofore 
known the Atlas sufficiently well 
to feel justified in recommending 
it to inquiring students. 



W. W. Goodwin, Professor of 
Greek, Harvard University : It is 
a most beautiful and highly useful 
work, and I am glad to see what 
used to be an expensive luxury 
brought within the means of all 
students of the classics. 

S. R. W in &ns, Professor of 
Greek, College of New fersey: It is 
superb: nothing to criticise, and 
everything to commend. Every 
student of the classics needs some- 
thing of the sort, and this is by all 
odds the best of its kind. 



QINN & COMPANY, Publishers, 

Boston. New York. Chicago. Atlanta. Dallas. 



6 



This iMSfOk flfhould be returned to 
the Library on or before the last date 
stamped below. 

A fine of five cents a day is incurred 
by retaining it beyond the specified 
time. 

Please return promptly. 



^ 



I'; 
I? 
